
1. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1990 Jan;122(1):127-36.

Long-term culture of rat mammotrope and somatotrope subpopulations separated on
continuous Percoll density gradients: effects of dopamine, TRH, GHRH and
somatostatin.ä Ü

Hofland LJ(1), van Koetsveld PM, Verleun TM, Lamberts SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Normal adult female rat mammotrope and somatotrope subpopulations were separated 
on continuous Percoll density gradients according to differences in their
density. Viable cells were recovered in 16 fractions. The cells from each
fraction were cultured during 7 days after which period 4-h incubations were
performed. rPRL secretion per cell increased towards the higher density
fractions. No major difference in TRH, dopamine and somatostatin responsiveness
was observed between mammotropes that were recovered in the different gradient
fractions. In addition, no differences in somatostatin responsiveness between the
somatotrope cells in the different gradient fractions were observed. However,
somatotropes that were recovered in the highest density region of the gradient
appeared to be more responsive to GHRH than the lower density somatotropes. In
the various gradient fractions there were no paradoxical effects of TRH and
dopamine on rGH release and of GHRH on rPRL release.CONCLUSIONS: 1. In long-term 
cultures there is no evidence for functionally different subpopulations of
mammotropes and somatotropes, separated according to differences in their
density, with regard to dopamine and TRH responsiveness and with regard to
somatostatin responsiveness, respectively. 2. There is no evidence for a
(mammosomatotrope?) subpopulation of cells showing paradoxical responses of PRL
or GH release to GHRH and dopamine or TRH, respectively.

PMID: 1968307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1990 Jan;122(1):22-8.

Triiodothyronine autoantibodies in Graves' disease: their changes after
antithyroid therapy and relationship with the thyroglobulin antibodies.

Wang PW(1), Huang MJ, Liu RT, Chen CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolism, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC.

Sera of 63 patients with Graves' disease, and 49 control subjects were assayed
for T3 autoantibodies by a sensitive radioimmunoassay after being stripped of the
endogenous thyroid hormone. T3 autoantibodies were demonstrated in 27% of
patients with Graves' disease. After antithyroid treatment, T3 autoantibodies in 
75% of the patients with positive antibody before therapy changed to negative
titre during a follow-up period of 1 to 12 months. Also, a significant decrease
of T3 autoantibodies was observed at 1 month after therapy in all patients who
received antithyroid treatment. A further study of T3 autoantibodies and
anti-thyroglobulin antibodies showed that the latter were demonstrated in 100% of
patients with positive T3 autoantibodies and that T3 autoantibodies existed in
about one third of patients with positive anti-thyroglobulin antibodies. The
results suggested that T3 autoantibodies could be a subpopulation of the
heterogenous anti-thyroglobulin antibodies. Although the fall of T3
autoantibodies in some patients was correlated to that of anti-thyroglobulin
antibodies, the overall correlation between T3 autoantibodies and
anti-thyroglobulin antibodies was poor.IN CONCLUSION: 1. T3 autoantibodies may be
suppressed by antithyroid drugs. 2. Being a subpopulation of anti-thyroglobulin
antibodies, T3 autoantibodies may be caused by an antigenic site within the big
thyroglobulin molecule, whereas their titre was not correlated with that of the
overall heterogenous anti-thyroglobulin antibodies.

PMID: 1689529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Acta Med Leg Soc (Liege). 1990;40:61-70.

[Alcohol and psychotropic drugs in fatal traffic accidents (the
Nord-Pas-de-Calais region, France)].

[Article in French]

Deveaux M(1), Marson JC, Goldstein P, Lhermitte M, Gosset D, Muller PH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Toxicologie, Institut de Médecine Légale, Lille, France.

Consumption of alcohol and tranquilizers reaches a very high level in France.
Studies about simultaneous alcohol and psychotropic drugs involvement in motor
related fatalities have never been described in this country. A retrospective
study was done on 482 fatalities broken down by drivers and pedestrians within
one year (1987) in Région Nord-Pas de Calais (France).METHOD: 132 cases met the
criteria for complete study. Blood samples obtained at the time of death were
analysed for alcohol (BAC) by gas-chromatography and assayed for barbiturates
(BA), benzodiazepines (BE) and tricyclic antidepressants (TA) by Emit.
RESULTS: Out of 132 fatalities there were 86% men (mean age 38.5 years) and 14%
women (mean age 46 years). 57% belonged to the working population. Of the
fatalities, 38% occurred from Friday 8 p.m. to Sunday 12 p.m. We distinguished 3 
categories: pedestrians (18.2%), 2-wheel vehicles (19%) and 4-wheel vehicles
(62.8%). Alcohol involvement is given in Table 2. [table: see text] Notice that
53% were above the legal limit (0.8 g/l) and 34.8% had no alcohol. Psychotropic
drugs were detected in 10.6% of the cases (Table 3). [table: see text] BZ were
found in 50% of men and 100% of women. drugs and alcohol were present
simultaneously in 8.3% of the individuals. Results are in % of total in Table 4: 
[table: see text] Positive BAC and positive drugs are not related. No significant
difference was found in the distribution of alcohol between positive or negative 
drugs findings. Our results are consistent with those described by North-American
authors, but largely superior to those from French or other studies done only on 
injured persons.

PMID: 2135864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1990;69(5):417-22.

Single-dose oral fluconazole versus single-dose topical miconazole for the
treatment of acute vulvovaginal candidosis.

van Heusden AM(1), Merkus HM, Corbeij RS, Oosterbaan HP, Stoot JE, Ubachs HM,
Verhoeff A.

Author information: 
(1)Maria and St Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To compare efficacy, safety and patient preference of a single oral
dose of 150 mg fluconazole with a single intravaginal dose of 1200 mg miconazole 
in vaginal candidosis. To investigate the effect of treatment on Candida
colonization of throat and rectum.
DESIGN: Double-blind, double-dummy, parallel, randomized trial. Ninety-nine
patients with symptomatic and mycologically verified candidosis were given 150 mg
fluconazole with an intravaginal dummy, or 1200 mg miconazole with an oral dummy.
Patients with an inadequate short-term response were given a second dose.
RESULTS: At each visit a patient self assessment and an investigators' global
assessment were recorded, and cultures were set up. Adverse events were recorded 
and laboratory tests were performed. Clinical cure or improvement (investigators'
assessment) was obtained in 100% (short-term) and 95% (long term) of the
fluconazole group and in 94% and 90%, respectively, of the miconazole group.
Patients considered the treatment excellent or good in 81% (short-term) and 88%
(long-term) in the fluconazole group and in 84% and 76%, respectively, of the
miconazole group. Mycological cure was achieved in 98% (short-term) and 73%
(long-term) of the fluconazole group and in 96% and 82% respectively in the
miconazole group. The differences in results were not significant. Both
treatments significantly reduced the number of positive rectal cultures: neither 
treatment had a significant effect on throat cultures. Four percent of the
patients preferred intravaginal therapy.
CONCLUSION: A single dose fluconazole is as safe and effective as a single dose
of miconazole.

PMID: 2270767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1990;69(7-8):649-50.

Reduced use of diagnostic obstetric ultrasound in Norway. Result of consensus
panel recommending routine screening in pregnancy?

Backe B(1), Nafstad P, Saetnan AR.

Author information: 
(1)Norwegian Institute of Hospital Research Trondheim.

PURPOSE: To investigate the practice of obstetric ultrasound in Norway before and
2 years after a consensus conference recommending routine screening. Material,
method: Two national representative materials sampled with a 2-year interval are 
compared.
RESULTS: The average number of examinations was reduced from 2.46 to 2.2 (p =
0.014). Obstetrical institutions practising screening examined their patient less
frequently than non-screening institutions (2.10 vs. 2.75 times, p less than
0.001 whereas in 1986 the converse was the case.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening has become more widespread, and a more rational practice
has developed.

PMID: 2094149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Acta Psychiatr Scand Suppl. 1990;359:1-57.

Psychosocial function before and after gastric banding surgery for morbid
obesity. A prospective psychiatric study.

Larsen F.

Author information: 
Psychiatric Department B, Ullevål Hospital, Oslo.

The objective of this study was to measure psychosocial functioning in morbid
obese patients before and after horizontal gastric banding surgery, and to
analyse the relations between the changes in psychosocial functioning and
preoperative variables and degree of weight loss.METHODS: One hundred and three
patients undergoing horizontal gastric banding surgery from 1982-85 were
personally interviewed and rated by the author on DSM-III axis 1, 2 and 5, the
CPRS, demographic data and precoded clinical scales. The interviews and ratings
were completed in the last week before the operation. In addition the patients
completed questionnaires concerning psychic symptoms (SCL-90) and quality of
life. Twenty-five patients also completed the questionnaires six months before
the operation. The patients were followed up after one and three years.
RESULTS: There were 66 women and 24 men with a mean age of 35.4 years. Their mean
preoperative weight was 121.8 kg corresponding to a Broca Index of 1.72 and a
Body Mass Index of 41.5. They had a mean SCL-90/GSI score of 0.99. Fourty-one
percent got a diagnosis on DSM-III axis 1 and 22% a diagnosis on axis 2.
Thirty-seven percent had made at least one contact with health services before
the operation due to psychiatric problems. There were no strong relations between
the relative preoperative weight and any other preoperative variable. The
follow-up rate was 93%. The patients had a mean weight loss of 34.9 kg after one 
year and 31.5 kg three years after the operation. On group level the course and
outcome of psychosocial functioning was a beneficial one. These changes were
highly statistically significant and evident after one year, with only slight
differences to the three years follow-up. The degree of weight loss explained a
modest but statistically significant part of the variance in most of the
psychosocial outcome variables when the preoperative level of the variable and
the preoperative weight were controlled for. The degree of psychiatric contact in
the follow-up period seemed to reflect another dimension. It was not related to
the changes in the other psychosocial outcome variables, nor to the degree of
weight loss, but was highly correlated to the degree of preoperative psychiatric 
contact. A group of patients with negative psychosocial outcome was identified.
This group was characterized by a higher frequency of preoperative psychiatric
help-seeking, than the rest of the patients. This pattern was most evident in a
subgroup of 19% of the patients, who had a negative psychosocial reaction in
spite of a sufficient weight loss.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2220412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Acta Urol Belg. 1990;58(2):87-94.

[The value of mobilization of the prostatic region via perineal approach in the
treatment of ruptures and stenoses of the posterior urethra].

[Article in French]

L'Hermite J(1), Chopin G, Hubert J, Six A, Guillemin P.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHU Nancy Brabois, Vandoeuvre les Nancy.

11 cases of end to end anastomosis associated with the mobilization of the
prostate is reported. The authors use only the perineal access. The operation is 
utilised in two circumstances: injuries or traumatic strictures to the membranous
urethra. 4 ruptured prostato-membranous urethras with 4 good results. 7 stenosis 
with 5 good results. 2 recurrences which one of them had a good result with a
simple urethrotomy. Complication: no incontinence. 2 cases of impotence are
noted. One of them had recovered, the other is secondary of the pelvic fracture. 
Follow up: mean 3 years (6 months-5 years).CONCLUSION: our experience suggest
that the mobilization of the prostate is an excellent aid to end to end
anastomosis. This technique permits the only perineal access.

PMID: 2073042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Adv Neurol. 1990;52:359-63.

Clinical study of mannitol and glycerol on raised intracranial pressure and on
their rebound phenomenon.

Node Y(1), Nakazawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan.

We have studied the effects of mannitol and glycerol on raised ICP as monitored
by epidural pressure recordings in 65 patients. Four methods of infusion were
assessed. In group A, 0.5 g/kg mannitol was infused within 15, 30, or 60 min. In 
group B, 1.0 g/kg mannitol was infused within 30, 60, or 90 min. In group C, 0.5 
g/kg glycerol in 5% fructose was infused within 30, 60, or 90 min. In group D,
1.0 g/kg glycerol was infused within 60, 120, or 180 min.RESULTS: (a) In group A,
there was no difference in the reduction of ICP among the three infusion rates.
In group B, the degree of ICP reduction increased with shorter times of infusion.
In the groups receiving glycerol, the reduction of ICP was inversely related with
the rate of infusion. (b) In every group, it appeared that the slower the
infusion rate of the same dosage became, the longer the reduction of ICP lasted. 
(c) A rebound phenomenon occurred in 12% of the mannitol groups and 34% of the
glycerol groups. The dose and the rate of mannitol infusion did not influence the
occurrence of the rebound phenomenon. In the glycerol groups, the infusion method
did influence the occurrence of rebound phenomenon. Our present study
demonstrated that there were differences between mannitol and glycerol infusion
in their effectiveness and in the occurrence of rebound phenomenon.

PMID: 2118716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1N):46N-51N.

Prevalence of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in patients with
atherosclerosis elsewhere.

Olin JW(1), Melia M, Young JR, Graor RA, Risius B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio 44195.

PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in 
patients who have atherosclerosis elsewhere but lack the usual clinical clues to 
suggest renal artery stenosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The arteriograms and charts of 395 consecutive patients
were prospectively reviewed by a member of the Vascular Medicine Department and a
member of the Radiology Department. These patients underwent arteriography as
part of the routine evaluation for abdominal aortic aneurysm (109 patients),
aorto-occlusive disease (21 patients), lower-extremity occlusive disease (189
patients), and suspected renal artery stenosis (76 patients). Patients in the
first three groups did not have the usual clues that suggest renal artery
stenosis.
RESULTS: There was greater than 50% renal artery stenosis in 41 patients (38%)
with abdominal aortic aneurysm, seven patients (33%) with aorto-occlusive
disease, 74 patients (39%) with lower-extremity occlusive disease, and 53
patients (70%) with suspected renal artery stenosis. The prevalence of renal
artery stenosis was similar in diabetic and nondiabetic patients with abdominal
aortic aneurysm, aorto-occlusive disease, or suspected renal artery stenosis, but
higher in diabetics with lower-extremity occlusive disease (50%) compared to
nondiabetics with lower-extremity occlusive disease (33%) (p = 0.022). High-grade
bilateral disease was present in approximately 13% of patients with abdominal
aortic aneurysm or lower-extremity occlusive disease, and totally occluded renal 
arteries occurred in 5% of the patients in these groups. There was an association
between increasing degree of renal artery stenosis and the presence of
hypertension and worsening of renal function.
CONCLUSION: Patients with atherosclerosis elsewhere, especially abdominal aortic 
aneurysm, aorto-occlusive disease, or lower-extremity occlusive disease, have a
high prevalence of significant renal artery stenosis even in the absence of the
usual clues to suspect renal artery stenosis. Diabetic patients have a similar
prevalence as nondiabetic patients. This information may have important
therapeutic implications in patients being considered for vascular surgery.

PMID: 2368764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1N):42N-45N.

Simvastatin in the effective reduction of plasma lipoprotein levels in familial
dysbetalipoproteinemia (type III hyperlipoproteinemia).

Stuyt PM(1), Mol MJ, Stalenhoef AF, Demacker PN, Van 't Laar A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia (type III hyperlipoproteinemia) is
characterized by an increase of serum lipids caused by an accumulation of remnant
particles of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. We studied the efficacy of
simvastatin, an inhibitor of the biosynthesis of cholesterol, in this disorder.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twelve patients participated in an open-label study. After 
a three-week placebo period, they were treated with increasing doses (10 mg twice
a day, 20 mg twice a day, and 40 mg twice a day) of simvastatin in six-week
periods.
RESULTS: With the 80-mg dose, the mean serum cholesterol level decreased from
12.30 +/- 4.96 to 5.29 +/- 1.24 mmol/L (mean reduction, 54%) and the mean serum
triglyceride level decreased from 8.77 +/- 7.16 to 3.61 +/- 1.33 mmol/L (-48%);
this was due to a decrease in very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and low-density
lipoprotein (LDL) lipids. There was a decrease in the ratio of VLDL cholesterol
to serum triglycerides and in the apolipoproteins B and E, suggesting a reduction
in the amount of circulating atherogenic remnant particles. Except for a slight
increase in serum alanine aminotransferase levels in three patients, no side
effects were observed.
CONCLUSION: These data show that levels of serum lipids can be effectively
reduced by simvastatin in familial dysbetalipoproteinemia.

PMID: 2368763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1N):35N-41N.

Risk stratification and management of patients with organic heart disease and
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia: role of programmed stimulation, left
ventricular ejection fraction, and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram.

Turitto G(1), Fontaine JM, Ursell S, Caref EB, Bekheit S, el-Sherif N.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, Health Science Center, Brooklyn 11203.

PURPOSE: Programmed stimulation, left ventricular ejection fraction, and
signal-averaged electrocardiography were performed in patients with organic heart
disease and spontaneous nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) to determine
the role of these techniques in risk stratification and management.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 90 patients: 63 had coronary artery 
disease and 27 had idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Radionuclide
ventriculography, signal-averaged electrocardiography, and programmed electrical 
stimulation were performed in all patients within 48 hours of index ambulatory
electrocardiography.
RESULTS: Fifty-three patients (59%) had an ejection fraction less than 40%.
Programmed stimulation induced sustained monomorphic VT in 22 patients (24%),
ventricular fibrillation (VF) in 10 patients (11%), and no sustained VT/VF in 58 
patients (64%). The signal-averaged electrocardiogram (ECG) showed late
potentials in 23 patients (26%). Sustained monomorphic VT could be induced in 65%
of patients with late potentials and in 10% of those without late potentials.
There was no case of inducible sustained monomorphic VT in 33 patients with no
late potentials and an ejection fraction of 40% or greater. All patients with
induced sustained monomorphic VT received antiarrhythmic therapy guided by the
results of programmed stimulation. All 58 patients with no induced sustained
ventricular tachyarrhythmias and eight patients with induced VF were discharged
without receiving antiarrhythmic drugs. During a follow-up of 30 +/- 10 months,
the three-year sudden death rate was 19% in patients with induced sustained VT,
0% in those with induced VF, and 9% in those with no induced sustained VT/VF. The
three-year sudden death rate was the same (7%) in patients with no induced
sustained VT/VF, both in those with an ejection fraction of 40% or greater or
less than 40%. On the other hand, the three-year total cardiac mortality was
significantly higher (27%) in those patients with ejection fractions less than
40% compared to those with ejection fractions of 40% or greater (7%).
CONCLUSION: It is concluded that the signal-averaged ECG, ejection fraction, and 
programmed stimulation could be used for the risk stratification and management
of patients with organic heart disease and nonsustained VT as follows: (1)
Patients with no late potentials and with an ejection fraction of 40% or greater 
do not require invasive evaluation or antiarrhythmic therapy, since the
incidences of induced VT and sudden death are very low. (2) Patients with late
potentials as well as patients without late potentials but with an ejection
fraction of less than 40% may be advised to undergo electrophysiologic
evaluation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2368762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):9-12.

Rhabdomyolysis in the hyperosmolal state.

Singhal PC(1), Abramovici M, Venkatesan J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, New
York 11042.

PURPOSE: We undertook this study to determine the occurrence of rhabdomyolysis in
the hyperosmolal state.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed 130 hospital admissions due to diabetic
ketoacidosis or hyperosmolal coma, or both. Thirty-one patients (12 men and 19
women) were found to be in the hyperosmolal state. Sixteen of 31 patients showed 
biochemical evidence of rhabdomyolysis. The clinical and biochemical features of 
the patients with rhabdomyolysis (Group I) and the patients without
rhabdomyolysis (Group II) were compared.
RESULTS: Patients in Group I showed a 100-fold increase (7,156 +/- 2,820 IU/L) in
serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) when compared to the patients in Group II (61 
+/- 11 IU/L). The mean serum osmolality was much higher (p less than 0.001) in
patients with rhabdomyolysis (381 +/- 12 mOsm/kg) than in those without
rhabdomyolysis (324 +/- 4 mOsm/kg). The serum sodium level was elevated (p less
than 0.001) in Group I patients (151 +/- 4 mEq/L) but not in Group II patients
(133 +/- 2 mEq/L). There was a linear association between serum CPK versus serum 
sodium (r = 0.62, p less than 0.05) and serum CPK versus serum osmolality (r =
0.05, p less than 0.05). The mean serum potassium level was lower (p less than
0.01) in Group I than in Group II. Only two patients (12%) in Group I and almost 
half the patients (seven of 15) in Group II were hyperkalemic. The mean serum
phosphorus level was lower in Group II than in Group I. Four patients in Group I 
and one patient in Group II developed acute renal failure.
CONCLUSION: Subclinical rhabdomyolysis is a common finding in the hyperosmolal
state. Absence of hyperkalemia in the presence of muscle injury, hyperosmolality,
hyperglycemia, and acidosis suggested pre-existing total-body potassium
deficiency in many of these patients. In addition to hypokalemia, the
hyperosmolal state predisposes to the development of rhabdomyolysis.

PMID: 2294777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):43-8.

Therapeutic antibiotic monitoring: surveillance using a computerized expert
system.

Pestotnik SL(1), Evans RS, Burke JP, Gardner RM, Classen DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah 84143.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To develop and evaluate a computerized system to monitor
therapeutic antibiotics in a hospital setting.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From November 1986 through October 1987, we prospectively
monitored 1,632 hospitalized patients who had 2,157 microbiology specimens sent
for culture and sensitivity testing. During the study period, computer algorithms
were used to identify patients whose antibiotic therapy was inappropriate in
relation to microbiology culture and sensitivity data. When inconsistencies
occurred between antibiotic therapy and in vitro sensitivity data, computer
algorithms generated therapeutic antibiotic monitor (TAM) alerts. A clinical
pharmacist then notified the attending physician of the alert.
RESULTS: Antibiotic therapy was identified by the computer as inappropriate in
696 instances (32%). After we eliminated false-positive alerts, 420 evaluable TAM
alerts remained. Physicians responded to the TAM alerts by either changing or
starting antimicrobial therapy in 125 cases (30%). Moreover, physicians were
previously unaware of the relevant susceptibility test results in 49% of the
alerts.
CONCLUSION: Computer-assisted monitoring is an efficient and promising method to 
identify and correct errors in antimicrobial prescribing and to assure the
appropriate use of therapeutic antibiotics.

PMID: 2294764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):31-5.

Antipyretic orders in a university hospital.

Isaacs SN(1), Axelrod PI, Lorber B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Temple University Health Sciences Center, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19140.

PURPOSE: Antipyretics are prescribed for many hospitalized patients, but details 
concerning prescribing practices are not known. This study was designed to
determine the incidence and format of antipyretic orders in a university-based
tertiary-care center, and to ascertain whether orders are correlated with patient
characteristics or hospital services.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of 300 randomly selected patients on the
medicine, general surgery, neurosurgery, and obstetrics and gynecology services, 
and of 75 patients admitted with pneumonia and fever were retrospectively
reviewed using a standardized data form.
RESULTS: Orders for acetaminophen prn (as needed), without further explanation,
were interpreted by the nursing staff as antipyretic orders; 78% of patients with
such an order and fever received acetaminophen during the febrile episode. If
orders of this type were included, 153 (51%) of the randomly selected patients
received an antipyretic order. Gender, age, duration of hospitalization,
intensive care unit residence, fever, and presence of a condition worsened by
fever were not significant independent predictors of antipyretic prescription,
but documented infection and hospitalization on the medicine and neurosurgery
services were, with adjusted odds ratios of 2.5 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.3
to 5.0), 9.4 (95% CI 3.6 to 25), and 14 (95% CI 5.0 to 41), respectively. Of
patients who received an antipyretic order, 70% had an admission order for
antipyretics; 26%, an order prompted by fever; and 79%, an order while afebrile. 
In 86%, the order was written prn without further explanation. Around-the-clock
dosing, automatic stop orders, and acknowledgement and justification of orders
were rare.
CONCLUSION: Antipyretic orders are routine and correlate more strongly with
hospital service than with individual patient characteristics. They are
umprecisely written and generally leave decisions about antipyretic
administration to the complete discretion of the nursing staff.

PMID: 2294763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):27-30.

Frequency of adverse reactions after influenza vaccination.

Margolis KL(1), Poland GA, Nichol KL, MacPherson DS, Meyer JD, Korn JE, Lofgren
RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

PURPOSE: Although concern about side effects constitutes a major deterrent to
patient compliance with recommendations for influenza vaccination, there is a
paucity of data about the frequency of adverse reactions to newer trivalent
vaccines. Our aim was to determine the frequency of adverse reactions to
influenza vaccine in older, chronically ill persons, many of whom are at high
risk for influenza-related morbidity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a telephone survey of 40% of the patients who 
were vaccinated at a walk-in flu shot clinic. The subjects were randomly assigned
to two groups. To determine postvaccine symptom rates, Group I was interviewed
seven days after vaccination. Group II was interviewed 21 days after vaccination 
in order to control for baseline symptom rates. Both groups were queried about
fever, disability, and flu-like illness in the week preceding the interview.
RESULTS: Of 816 patients selected, 650 (79.6%) completed the interview. The mean 
age of the subjects was 63, and more than two thirds were at risk for
influenza-related morbidity. The frequencies of self-reported fever (5.3% versus 
5.1%, p = 0.91) and disability (10.4% versus 9.3%, p = 0.65) were similar in the 
two groups. However, a significantly higher proportion of Group I subjects
reported a flu-like illness compared to the Group II subjects (14.2% versus 8.7%,
p = 0.03). Although Group I subjects were more likely to report flu-like illness 
within two days of vaccination compared to a similar time interval for Group II
subjects, there was no corresponding clustering of disability after vaccination.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the overall frequency of symptoms in both groups was
low; however, the absolute risk of a flu-like illness was 5.5% higher during the 
first week following influenza vaccination when compared with the third week
after the injection. These symptoms did not result in a decreased ability to
perform usual daily activities.

PMID: 2294762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):21-6.

Isolation of Borrelia burgdorferi from the blood of seven patients with Lyme
disease.

Nadelman RB(1), Pavia CS, Magnarelli LA, Wormser GP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, New York Medical College, Valhalia.

PURPOSE: Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, has rarely
been successfully cultured from blood. We report on seven patients from
Westchester County, New York, with B. burgdorferi bacteremia diagnosed between
April 1987 and August 1987.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty-two attempts to isolate spirochetes were
made on blood specimens obtained from 104 patients. Twenty-two of these specimens
were obtained from nine patients who had recently been bitten by Ixodes ticks but
who were asymptomatic. Heparinized blood or serum specimens (0.2 to 0.4 mL) were 
inoculated onto 6 mL of modified Barbour-Stoenner-Kelly medium. Lyme serology was
performed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent polyvalent, IgM, and IgG assays,
fluorescent immunoassay, and microhemagglutination.
RESULTS: Four of the seven patients had erythema migrans, two had facial nerve
palsy, and one had a flu-like syndrome without rash. These patients represented
21% (four of 19) of all patients with the characteristic skin lesion who had
blood cultures for B. burgdorferi, and 40% (two of five) of all those with facial
nerve palsy. Serologic testing was frequently nonreactive; two patients had no
detectable antibody on multiple sera by five different assays. All patients
improved with antibiotic treatment, and had negative subsequent blood cultures,
but five of seven had persistent complaints after completion of therapy.
CONCLUSION: Culturing blood for B. burgdorferi may be useful in confirming the
diagnosis of Lyme disease in selected patients. Use of spirochete blood cultures 
may facilitate a better understanding of the pathogenesis and natural history of 
Lyme disease.

PMID: 2294761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):13-20.

Subclavian and axillary involvement in temporal arteritis and polymyalgia
rheumatica.

Ninet JP(1), Bachet P, Dumontet CM, Du Colombier PB, Stewart MD, Pasquier JH.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Médecine Interne, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Sep;89(3):396.

PURPOSE: We describe 10 female patients with temporal arteritis (TA) and/or
polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) who presented with upper-extremity ischemia.
PATIENTS, METHODS, AND RESULTS: Arm claudication or Raynaud's phenomenon was the 
initial manifestation of the disease in four cases, appeared with classical
symptoms in one case, or occurred during decreasing corticosteroid therapy in
five cases. Temporal artery biopsy was performed in nine patients and showed
typical giant-cell granulomatous arteritis in seven cases. Angiograms in all
cases showed multiple bilateral smooth stenoses, or obliterations of
postvertebral subclavian and/or axillary arteries, or both. Symptoms always
improved with corticosteroid treatment and none of the patients required
reconstructive surgery, although angiography performed after stabilization did
not show revascularization of occluded vessels.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that large-artery involvement in TA and PMR affects most 
commonly the subclavian and axillary arteries, with a female predominance
comparable to that in Takayasu's arteritis. Both these disorders should be
considered in elderly women with occlusive disease of the upper extremities.
Although response to steroid therapy was sufficient in our series to avoid
surgery, we believe it is preferable to recognize large-artery involvement as
early as possible and recommend performance of ultrasonic Doppler examination
when any sign of oncoming ischemia or stenosis is observed.

PMID: 2294760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):1-8.

Proposal for a simple synthesis prognostic staging system in chronic myelogenous 
leukemia.

Kantarjian HM(1), Keating MJ, Smith TL, Talpaz M, McCredie KB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

PURPOSE: Several prognostic models or staging systems have been published that
identify different risk groups in patients with Philadelphia chromosome
(Ph)-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). The aims of this study were (1)
to test, in an independent population, the prognostic reproducibility of these
staging systems; and (2) to develop a synthesis staging system that could be
easily applied in clinical practice.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 406 patients with newly diagnosed Ph-positive
CML were evaluated by the four published staging systems of Tura, Cervantes,
Sokal, and our group. The proposed synthesis staging system was developed based
on the most consistent prognostic characteristics, and the presence or absence of
accelerated disease features at diagnosis. The staging systems were compared
according to survival outcome, as well as by looking for differences of survival 
outcomes within a specific stage of a defined system, when patients in this stage
were subclassified by a second staging system.
RESULTS: Whereas the staging system of Cervantes et al identified only two
prognostic groups (median survivals of 49 versus 40 months; p = 0.01), the
remaining three staging systems were able to segregate patients into stage 1, 2, 
and 3 risk groups with respective median survivals of 56 to 57, 41 to 42, and 28 
to 36 months, respectively (p less than 0.001 to p less than 0.002). The new
proposed staging system, based on the existence of zero to one (stage 1), two
(stage 2), or three or more unfavorable (stage 3) characteristics, or the
presence of accelerated disease features (stage 4), categorized patients into
four prognostic groups with median survivals of 56, 45, 30, and 30 months,
respectively (p less than 0.001), the latter stage (stage 4) being associated
with a higher one-year mortality rate (29%). The synthesis staging system was
also able to subclassify patients within most of Tura's and Sokal's stages into
significantly different prognostic groups by survival outcome.
CONCLUSION: The predictive prognostic capacity of three of the four published
staging systems was confirmed in this independent or test population. The new
proposed staging system was superior to the staging systems of Tura and Sokal in 
identifying different prognostic subgroups.

PMID: 2294759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):36-42.

Ofloxacin versus vancomycin/polymyxin for prevention of infections in
granulocytopenic patients.

Winston DJ(1), Ho WG, Bruckner DA, Gale RP, Champlin RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA Center for the Health Sciences.

INTRODUCTION: The efficacy and safety of oral ofloxacin were compared with those 
of vancomycin/polymyxin for prophylaxis of bacterial infections in
granulocytopenic patients undergoing chemotherapy for hematologic malignancy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Antimicrobial prophylaxis was begun at the time of
initiation of chemotherapy. Thirty patients received ofloxacin tablets (300 mg
orally every 12 hours) plus a nystatin suspension. Thirty-two patients received
vancomycin capsules (500 mg orally every eight hours) and polymyxin capsules (100
mg orally every eight hours) plus a nystatin suspension.
RESULTS: In the group of patients receiving ofloxacin, there were a lower number 
of acquired gram-negative bacillary organisms per patient (0.13 versus 1.37, p
less than 0.00005), fewer patients with documented infection (11 of 30 versus 21 
of 32, p = 0.04), and fewer cases of gram-negative septicemia (zero of 30 versus 
five of 32, p = 0.05). Ofloxacin was also better tolerated (24 of 30 versus 10 of
32 patients highly compliant, p = 0.01) and associated with fewer
gastrointestinal side effects (one of 30 versus nine of 32 patients with
gastrointestinal side effects, p = 0.01) than vancomycin/polymyxin. However,
except for a reduction of Staphylococcus aureus colonization and infection by
ofloxacin, neither ofloxacin nor vancomycin/polymyxin was effective in
eliminating colonization or infection with viridans group streptococci,
coagulase-negative staphylococci, or other gram-positive organisms. Only three
isolates of ofloxacin-resistant gram-negative bacteria (Pseudomonas fluorescens, 
Pseudomonas putida, and Enterobacter aerogenes) were isolated from surveillance
cultures, but none caused infection.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that oral ofloxacin is a more tolerable and
efficacious alternative to vancomycin/polymyxin for prevention of serious
gram-negative bacillary infections in granulocytopenic patients. More effective
prophylaxis of gram-positive infections, however, is still needed.

PMID: 2153006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1990 Jan-Feb;22(1-2):56-63.

Active immunization against LHRH: I. Effects of conjugation site and dose.

Ladd A(1), Tsong YY, Lok J, Thau RB.

Author information: 
(1)Population Council, New York, NY 10021.

Active immunization against LHRH is a promising method of contraception for men. 
In order to be acceptable, sufficient amounts of anti-LHRH antibodies must be
induced rapidly after vaccination. In previously reported animal studies, we
found that it took considerable time (up to 5 months) to obtain antibody titers
(AT) that were sufficiently high for complete suppression of spermatogenesis. The
possibility of accelerating the immune response to LHRH by increasing the dose of
immunogen was investigated in the male rat. Six doses of LHRH conjugated to
tetanus toxoid (TT) in the 10 position (LHRH10-TT), ranging from 2.5 to 612
micrograms, and three doses of LHRH1-TT (50 to 612 micrograms) were tested. The
magnitude of the immune response did not depend on the dose of the antigen,
provided a threshold dose had been surpassed. Antigenicity of LHRH conjugated to 
TT at either the 1-, 6-, or 10-position was compared in rats and rabbits. In both
species LHRH1-TT induced sufficient antibody concentrations to suppress pituitary
gonadotropins (LH and FSH) and, subsequently, serum testosterone (T) levels
faster than either the 6- or 10-conjugates. Only materials permitted for use in
humans were utilized in these experiments.CONCLUSION: Active immunization against
LHRH conjugated to TT at the 1-position has potential as a fast, convenient
method of male contraception.

PMID: 2189434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1990;182(3):249-62.

The presence of a juxtaglomerular apparatus in elasmobranch fish.

Lacy ER(1), Reale E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston 29425.

Previous studies have concluded that a juxtaglomerular apparatus evolved in
phylogenetic groups "higher" than elasmobranch fishes. The present study shows
for the first time a distinct juxtaglomerular apparatus in four marine
elasmobranchs, the spiny dogfish Squalus acanthias), the smooth dogfish (Mustelus
canis), the little skate (Raja erinacea), and the cownose ray (Rhinoptera
bonasus). Serial semithin sections of these fishes' kidneys reveal the four
morphological components of a juxtaglomerular apparatus at the vascular pole of
the renal corpuscle: (1) an afferent arteriole surrounded by smooth muscle cells 
which have granules containing a material exhibiting a periodic substructure
comparable to that of renin granules in higher vertebrates; (2) an efferent
arteriole usually devoid of smooth muscle cells but having pericyte-like cells;
(3) a macula densa portion of the distal tubule juxtaposed between the afferent
and efferent arterioles; and (4) elongated, fusiform cells (Goormaghtigh cells), 
which are in continuity with similar cells of the abundant intra-glomerular
mesangium, and fill the space bordered by the distal tubule and by the afferent
and efferent vessels. The distal tubule, from the site where it lies close to the
afferent arteriole, moves directly toward the urinary pole, frequently indenting 
the renal corpuscle. Within this indentation, the tubule may be flanked by the
efferent vessel, by the extraglomerular mesangium, or by Bowman's capsule only.
Facing these structures the tubular epithelial cells possess basally dilated
intercellular spaces. Endothelial cells of the efferent vessel(s) are
fenestrated, possessing pores which are closed by a diaphragm.CONCLUSION: marine 
elasmobranch fish possess the morphological components of a juxtaglomerular
apparatus which suggests that these fishes, like most other vertebrates, possess 
a renin-angiotensin system and a glomerular-tubular feedback mechanism.

PMID: 2268068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):78-84.

Online access to MEDLINE in clinical settings. A study of use and usefulness.

Haynes RB(1), McKibbon KA, Walker CJ, Ryan N, Fitzgerald D, Ramsden MF.

Author information: 
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: We introduced self-service access to the medical literature
database, MEDLINE, into clinical settings to assess the frequency, patterns,
purposes, and success of use.
DESIGN: Longitudinal descriptive study.
SETTING: Inpatient and outpatient services of a university medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: All trainees and attending staff working at the service sites were 
invited to participate; 158 (84%) did so.
INTERVENTIONS: Free online access was provided to MEDLINE through GRATEFUL MED
software. Participants were offered a 2-hour introduction to online searching and
2 hours of free search time.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For each search, a computer program requested
identification of the user and the question to be addressed. Search transactions 
were recorded automatically. Interviews were conducted after a random sample of
searches, and search questions were given to more expert searchers to run for
comparison with the original. Eighty-one percent of participants did searches on 
study computers, at a mean rate of 2.7 searches per month. On comparison
searches, participants retrieved 55% of the number of relevant articles retrieved
by reference librarians (P = 0.024) and 50% more irrelevant articles (P less than
0.001). Forty-seven percent of searches on patient problems affected clinical
decisions, but often on scanty information.
CONCLUSIONS: MEDLINE searching from clinical settings is feasible with brief
training and affects clinical decisions. However, inexperienced searchers miss
many relevant citations and search inefficiently. Further studies are needed to
assess the impact of searching on physician performance and patient care.

PMID: 2403476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):61-4.

Potential adverse drug interactions in the emergency room. An issue in the
quality of care.

Beers MH(1), Storrie M, Lee G.

Author information: 
(1)UCLA Center for Health Sciences.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine how often emergency department physicians prescribe
medications that can adversely interact with other medications that their
patients are already taking, which patients are at highest risk for potential
adverse reactions, and which medications most frequently lead to adverse
interactions.
DESIGN: Survey of elderly persons and other adults seeking care at an emergency
department.
PATIENTS: Four-hundred twenty-four randomly selected adults seeking care at a
university-affiliated hospital emergency department.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We evaluated 424 randomly selected visits to a
hospital emergency department made by 186 persons over age 65 and 238 younger
adults; all of the subjects were discharged without hospital admission.
Forty-seven percent of visits led to added medication, and in 10% of the visits
in which at least one medication was added, a new medication added a potential
adverse interaction. The interactions were determined by a computer program, were
reviewed using explicit criteria, and were excluded if of uncertain or trivial
clinical significance, rare, or not established for that specific drug. The
number of medications used at presentation was the best predictor of whether a
potential interaction would be introduced.
CONCLUSIONS: In the emergency departments studied, a medication history was
recorded on every patient and was available to physicians, but physicians did not
routinely screen for potential drug interactions. Further safeguards are needed
to protect patients from receiving medications that could produce adverse
interactions.

PMID: 2293818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):22-8.

Cough in tetraplegic subjects: an active process.

Estenne M(1), De Troyer A.

Author information: 
(1)Erasme University Hospital, Brussels, Belgium.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the role of the clavicular portion of the
pectoralis major during cough in tetraplegic subjects.
PATIENTS: Eight patients with longstanding traumatic transection of the lower
cervical cord.
METHODS: The electromyographic activity of the pectoralis major and abdominal
external oblique muscles and the changes in the anteroposterior diameter of the
lower rib cage, the upper rib cage, and the abdomen were measured during
voluntary coughing efforts in the seated posture.
RESULTS: When coughing, all subjects showed a large amount of electrical activity
in the pectoralis major with no activity in the external oblique. Simultaneously,
they had a clear-cut decrease in the anteroposterior diameter of the upper rib
cage together with an increase in the anteroposterior diameter of the abdomen. In
five subjects, the anteroposterior diameter of the lower rib cage also showed an 
initial increase. These changes were seen when cough was initiated at functional 
residual capacity or at a higher lung volume; they were also seen during a fit of
coughing.
CONCLUSIONS: In tetraplegic subjects the clavicular portion of the pectoralis
major plays a major role during coughing. Its contraction causes a reduction in
the size of the upper part of the rib cage and a rise in intrathoracic pressure; 
this pressure rise results secondarily in an outward (paradoxical) motion of the 
abdomen and the lower rib cage. Cough in tetraplegic subjects is thus an active, 
rather than a passive, process, and its effectiveness might be improved by a
combination of specific muscle training and abdominal binding.

PMID: 2293817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):11-6.

"Recovery only" ST-segment depression and the predictive accuracy of the exercise
test.

Lachterman B(1), Lehmann KG, Abrahamson D, Froelicher VF.

Author information: 
(1)Long Beach Veterans Affairs Medical Center, California.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1990 Aug 15;113(4):333-4.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To clarify the predictive value of exercise-induced ST-segment
depression occurring in recovery only, and to determine whether the addition of
recovery data improves the interpretation of the exercise test.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of data collected during exercise testing and
coronary angiography.
SETTING: A 1000-bed Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included 328 male patients who had had both a sign- or
symptom-limited treadmill test and coronary angiography.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 168 patients who had abnormal ST-segment
responses, 26 had such responses only during recovery. The positive predictive
value of this pattern for significant angiographic disease (84%) was not
statistically different from the predictive value of ST depression occurring
during exercise (87%). Inclusion of ST depression during recovery significantly
increased the sensitivity of the exercise test from 50% to 59% (P = 0.01) without
a change in predictive value. In addition, ST-segment depression occurring only
during exercise is usually associated with less-severe angiographic coronary
artery disease.
CONCLUSION: The occurrence of ST-segment depression during the recovery period
only, does not generally represent a "false-positive" response. The inclusion of 
findings from this period increases the diagnostic yield of the exercise test.
Previously proposed exercise test scores, as well as exercise electrocardiography
(ECG) analysis done in conjunction with scintigraphy, have a falsely lowered
sensitivity that could be increased by considering ST-segment changes occurring
in recovery.

PMID: 2293816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):50-60.

Advances in drug therapy for inflammatory bowel disease.

Peppercorn MA.

Author information: 
Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: To identify advances in drug therapy for inflammatory bowel disease, and
to evaluate the effectiveness of the new agents in treating both ulcerative
colitis and Crohn disease.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies published from January 1980 through June 1989 were
identified using MEDLINE and through extensive hand searching of bibliographies
in identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: One hundred and ten articles directly related to the topic were 
found and analyzed. Another 42 articles were relevant to the material reviewed.
DATA EXTRACTION: Articles were selected on the basis of study quality and their
significance with regard to treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: The aminosalicylates are emerging as effective and safe
therapy for inflammatory bowel disease. Corticotropin can be considered the drug 
of choice for certain patients with severe ulcerative colitis, and new rapidly
metabolized topical steroids appear to be as effective as traditional forms and
have fewer side effects. Immunosuppressive agents, including 6-mercaptopurine and
azathioprine, may be useful in treating difficult-to-manage patients with either 
Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis, whereas cyclosporine appears promising but
should be reserved for patients in whom other measures have failed. Patients with
refractory perineal Crohn disease and those with Crohn colitis may benefit from
metronidazole. Many other drugs including clonidine, cromoglycate, chloroquine,
fish oil, methotrexate, antituberculous agents, interferon, and superoxide
dismutase have shown enough promise in preliminary studies to warrant controlled 
clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: Drug therapy for inflammatory bowel disease, limited for many years 
to sulfasalazine and some corticosteroids, has been extended to include the
aminosalicylates, rapidly metabolized topical steroids, immunosuppressive agents,
and metronidazole. Potentially useful newer drugs await further study.

PMID: 2152845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):29-34.

The rate of bone mineral loss in normal men and the effects of calcium and
cholecalciferol supplementation.

Orwoll ES(1), Oviatt SK, McClung MR, Deftos LJ, Sexton G.

Author information: 
(1)Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oregon.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the rate of bone loss in normal men, and to examine the
effects of dietary calcium and cholecalciferol supplementation on bone loss in
men.
DESIGN: Double-blinded, placebo-controlled 3-year trial of supplementation with
calcium (1000 mg/d) and cholecalciferol (25 micrograms/d).
SETTING: Clinical research center at a university medical facility.
SUBJECTS: Normal men 30 to 87 years old, recruited from the Portland community.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Radial bone mineral content (assessed by
single-photon absorptiometry) fell by 1.0%/y (95% CI, -1.3% to 0.7%) at a
proximal radial site and 1.0%/y (95% CI, -1.4% to -0.6%) at a distal radial site.
Vertebral bone mineral content (assessed by dual-energy quantitative computed
tomography) declined by 2.3%/y (95% CI, -2.8% to -1.8%). In these healthy men
with a high basal dietary calcium intake (1159 mg/d), calcium and cholecalciferol
supplementation did not affect bone loss at any site.
CONCLUSIONS: Normal men experience a substantial bone loss at both axial and
appendicular sites that is not prevented by calcium and vitamin D supplementation
in a well-nourished population.

PMID: 2152844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):3-10.

A diffuse infiltrative CD8 lymphocytosis syndrome in human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) infection: a host immune response associated with HLA-DR5.

Itescu S(1), Brancato LJ, Buxbaum J, Gregersen PK, Rizk CC, Croxson TS, Solomon
GE, Winchester R.

Author information: 
(1)New York University Medical Center, New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical, immunologic, and immunogenetic
features of a diffuse infiltrative lymphocytic disorder resembling Sjögren
syndrome in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
DESIGN: Clinical case study.
SETTING: University-affiliated hospitals and outpatient clinics.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 17 patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All of the 17 patients had bilateral parotid gland
enlargement; 14 had xerostomia and 6 had xerophthalmia. Of the 17 patients, 14
had generalized lymphadenopathy, 10 had histologically proved lymphocytic
interstitial pneumonitis, 4 had neurologic involvement, and 3 had lymphocytic
infiltration of the gastrointestinal tract. Gallium scanning in all of 11 tested 
patients showed abnormal salivary gland uptake. Minor salivary gland biopsies
showed more than 2 lymphocytic foci per 4 mm2 tissue in all of 11 tested
patients, the infiltrate consisting predominantly of CD8 cells. Fifteen patients 
had circulating CD8 lymphocytosis; the principal phenotype of these cells was
CD8+ CD29+. Rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibodies were infrequent, and
none of the patients had anti-Ro/SS-A or anti-La/SS-B antibodies. HLA-DR5 was
significantly more frequent in the black patients (10 of 12) compared with
controls (13 of 45). Only one patient developed an opportunistic infection during
544 patient-months of study, and none has died of AIDS.
CONCLUSIONS: A distinct syndrome primarily characterized by parotid gland
enlargement, sicca symptoms, and pulmonary involvement occurs in HIV infection.
This disorder is associated with CD8 lymphocytosis and the presence of HLA-DR5,
and appears to be a genetically determined host immune response to HIV.

PMID: 2136714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Arch Invest Med (Mex). 1990;21 Suppl 1:277-84.

[Evaluation of immunologic diagnostic tests in amebiasis: diagnosis or bias? A
critical review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Garduño-Espinosa J(1), Martínez-García MC, Gómez-Delgado A, Mejía Arangure JM,
Ortega Alvarez M, Rendón-Macías E, Robles-Pérez E, Muñoz-Hernández O.

Author information: 
(1)Depto. de Epidemiología Clínica, Hospital de Pediatría, C.M.N.-I.M.S.S., México, 
D.F.

OBJECTIVE: 1. To describe the frequency of adherence to methodologic criteria
proposed for assessment of diagnostic tests. 2. To identify potential bias. 3. To
construct Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves based on data published 
on the assessed papers.
DESIGN: Descriptive cross-sectional survey.
STUDY MATERIAL: All papers listed under diagnosis and immunological headings of
amebiasis in the Index Medicus from 1970 to 1988.
STUDY UNITS: 80 papers.
MEASUREMENT: a: Adherence to methodologic criteria proposed for assessment of
diagnostic test. b: presence of potential bias.
MAIN RESULTS: The adherence to methodologic criteria varied 1 to 55% of the
papers. The comparison with a "gold standard" occurred in 40% the independent
"blind" assessment occurred in 6% the setting for the study was described 1%. The
study of an appropriate spectrum of disease was done in 11%. We were able to
construct ROC curves with data from 37 papers and differences were observed among
studies evaluating the same test. A high proportion of papers had potential bias.
CONCLUSIONS: The adherence to methodologic standards is poor in the papers
analyzed in this series. Consequently the frequency of potential bias was high.

PMID: 2136498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Arch Invest Med (Mex). 1990;21 Suppl 1:203-8.

Efficacy of zymodemes of E. histolytica technique in an epidemiologic study and
report of new zymodemes in Mexico.

Martínez-García MC(1), Gutiérrez-Trujillo G, Sánchez-Pares ME, Garduño-Rodríguez 
G, Valadez-Salazar A, Palacios-Beristain O, Isibasi-Araujo A, Muñoz-Hernández O.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Inv. Clínica en Enfermedades Infecciosas y Parasitarias IMSS, México,
D.F.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy of zymodemes of E. histolytica technique in
an epidemiologic study. To report the zymodemes for the first time described in
Mexico. To report the main difficulties in the correct classification of
zymodemes in this study. To describe the zymodemes identified in two evaluations 
done in 100 healthy individuals.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey and a cohort of healthy persons.
METHODS: We analyze the results of 1730 Robinson cultures performed in a
cross-sectional survey done in the Municipality of Cadereyta, Queretaro, Mexico
from October 1986 to August 1987. From positive cultures properly growth a Iysate
was done and preserved in liquid nitrogen until the electrophoretic determination
of 4 isoenzymes was done: EC 5.3.1.9. glucophosphate isomerase (GPI); EC 1.1.1.40
L-malate: NADP oxidoreductase (oxaloacetate decarboxylating) (ME); Ec 2.7.5.1
phosphoglucomutase (PGM); and EC 2.7.1.1 hexokinase (HK).
RESULTS: Of 1730 cultures 289 (16.7%) developed trophozoites, in 100 (34.6%) was 
possible to make lysate and zymodeme. There were 67 ZNP, 3 mixtures (ZP and ZNP) 
and 30 ZP. There were two patterns for the first time described in Mexico (XVII
and XVIII) and 30 strains had a pattern different from the 20 already described
by Sargeaunt. Results observed in 100 individuals measured twice. [table: see
text] There were 9 subjects in which zymodemes were isolated twice: at the first 
time 5 PZ and 4 NPZ, at the second time 1 PZ and 8 NPZ. At first time all 9 had
negative serology and the second time one carrier of NPZ became positive.
COMMENTS: In our study one tirth of Robinson cultures positive to trophozoites
reached lysate. Efficacy of zymodemes and CPS is similar. We report for the first
time in Mexico two non-pathogenic zymodemes (XVII and XVIII). We also report 30
zymodemes non-classified according to the standard proposed by Sargeaunt, one
explanation for this feature is the possibility of zymodemes variability or new
patterns. In endemic populations zymodeme pattern varies with time in
asymptomatic carriers.

PMID: 2136486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Arch Invest Med (Mex). 1990;21 Suppl 1:147-52.

Pathogenic and non-pathogenic zymodemes of Entamoeba histolytica in a rural area 
of Mexico. Concordance with serology.

Martínez-García MC(1), Muñoz O, Garduño-Rodríguez G, Sánchez-Pares ME,
Valadez-Salazar A, Palacios-Beristain O, Calderón-Segura M, Isibasi-Araujo A,
Gutiérrez G.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Investigación Clínica en Enfermedades Infeccionas y Parasitarias,
I.M.S.S. México, D.F.

OBJECTIVES: a) to describe the frequency of pathogenic and nonpathogenic
zymodemes of E. histolytica in asymptomatic carriers in rural Mexico, b) to
identify the isoenzymatic pattern of the zymodemes and c) to measure the
concordance of pathogenic zymodemes and positive serology.
DESIGN: Descriptive cross-sectional survey. Reference population: rural
communities of the mexican highlands.
STUDY UNITS: 2048 individuals from 341 families of 5 rural communities.
METHODS: From the local census of each community, 70 to 100 families were
selected by random sampling. All members of each family were studied. After
obtaining the consent the following activities were done: a) filling of a
questionnaire about housing and sanitary condition and structure of the family;
age, sex, literacy and digestive symptoms and illness during the previous 4
weeks, in each individual; b) a blood sample for serology (CEIP and IHA) and c) a
stool sample for coproparasitoscopic analysis (CPS) and zymodemes identification,
in each individual. Statistical evaluation was done by kappa index and receiving 
operating curves (ROC).
MAIN RESULTS: there were 122/1730 (7.1%) CPS studies positive to E histolytica
cysts, 100/1730 (5.8%) zymodemes isolated and 137/1886 (7.3%) positive serologic 
studies. Of the 100 zymodemes 30 had a pathogenic pattern, three had a mixture
(pathogenic/nonpathogenic) and 67 had a non-pathogenic patterns. There were two
(XVII, XVIII) patterns described for the first time in Mexico. Concordance
between pathogenic zymodemes and positive serology (IHA greater than 1:128) was
very low, Kappa = 0.05. ROC curves for IHA in pathogenic and non-pathogenic
zymodemes showed little relationship between positive serology and pathogenic
pattern.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the frequency of positive serology, coproparasitoscopic
studies and zymodemes identification was similar, the concordance between
serology and the coprologic studies was very low. This disagrees with other
reports, and deserves further investigation using methodologic standards in
design.

PMID: 2136479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):37-40.

[Lymphocytic and serum magnesium in older healthy and hypertensive subjects].

[Article in Portuguese]

Faintuch JJ(1), Azul JB, Wajngarten M, Santomauro AC, Rocha Ados S.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica Geral e Propedêutica, Faculdade de Medicina da USP-FMUSP.

PURPOSE: To study the lymphocyte and serum magnesium in older patients with and
without arterial hypertension.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied the lymphocyte and serum Mg in 22 older
patients, with diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 120 mmHg, not receiving
drug treatment. A method of freezing produced total lysis of the cells.
RESULTS: The mean lymphocyte Mg concentration in the older patients was 1.15 +/- 
0.74 picomoles per 100 cells, significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than in the
control group, that was 0.77 +/- 0.32 picomoles per 100 cells (lymphocyte Mg in
older hypertensive patients/control = 1.49); there were no significant
differences between groups with regard to serum Mg. Twelve older normotensive men
studied also had lymphocyte Mg significantly higher than in the respective
control group (lymphocyte Mg in older normotensive men/control = 1.70) and the
serum Mg was also significantly higher than in the control group (1.63 +/- 0.12
versus 1.44 +/- 0.22 mEq/l.
CONCLUSION: Since the high intracellular Mg concentration in the elderly patients
may more accurately reflect the total body Mg status. We suggest to use Mg and Mg
sparing diuretics in these patients, both hypertensive and normotensive,
cautiously.

PMID: 2264769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):33-6.

[Late potentials in patients with myocardial infarction subjected to coronary
thrombolysis].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bellotti G(1), Tranchesi B, Moffa P, Caramelli B, Pereira WI, De Albuquerque CP, 
Gebara O, Jatene A, Pileggi F.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto do Coração do Hospital das Clínicas-FMUSP.

PURPOSE: Analyse the behavior of the late potentials (LP) in patients submitted
to thrombolysis with success.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty-five patients with acute myocardial infarction, 32
(91.4%) male with ages varying from 33 to 68 (mean 52.6). Thrombolysis was
obtained during cinecoronarography with intravenous infusion "in bolus" of doses 
of 50 mg, 60 mg and 70 mg of rt-PA, with a new bolus of 30 mg at 60 minutes after
the procedure. A new angiographic study was performed 12-48 hours late. The high 
resolution ECG was taken with the ART system model 1200 EPX, before, after and 72
hours later. The presence of electrical activity in the last 40 ms of the QRS
complex with less than 20 mu volts in amplitude and more than 35 ms in duration
characterized the LP.
RESULTS: LP was observed in 16 (46%) patients during the phase of arterial
occlusion. LP was recorded only in 23% after recanalization and in 26% when the
infarcted related artery (IRA) remain opened. The reduction in the LP was 43.5%. 
Only one patient with LP had threatening arrhythmia.
CONCLUSION: In patients with demonstrated thrombotic occlusion of the IRA, the
recanalization diminished the incidence of LP in 43.5% of the patients. Further
studies are necessary to achieve the exact clinical importance of these findings.

PMID: 2264768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):27-31.

[Endomyocardial biopsy and myocardial imaging with 67-gallium in the diagnosis of
active myocarditis in children with dilated myocardiopathy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Camargo PR(1), Mazzieri R, Snitcowsky R, Meneguetti C, Soares Júnior J, Higuchi
Mde L, Ebaid M, Pileggi F.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto do Coração do Hospital das Clínicas-FMUSP.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to compare 67Ga imaging and endomyocardial
biopsy (EB) in children with severe dilated cardiomyopathy (DC), as well as to
evaluate the results in a group of patients with active myocarditis submitted to 
immunosuppressive therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-four pediatric patients with severe DC were studied. 
Twenty males and 24 females from 10 months to 15 year old (median = 2.6 years).
All patients were submitted to a protocol including 67Ga uptake and EB. In
patients submitted to immunosuppressive therapy these procedures were repeated
after six months.
RESULTS: In 32 patients (72.7%) the EB revealed presence of inflammatory process;
21 (65.6%) of these had a positive 67Ga uptake and 11 (34.4%) negative. Twelve
patients with no evidence of inflammatory process in the EB, nine (75%) presented
negative 67Ga uptake. However, when the intensity of myocardial inflammatory was 
analysed (mild, moderate and severe) and correlated with 67Ga imaging, was
observed that the majority of patients with negative 67Ga uptake (11 patients)
had mild inflammatory infiltration (nine patients). In this way the 67Ga uptake
demonstrated a good correlation in the diagnosis of moderate and severe
inflammatory process in children with DC. This is important because the use of
immunosuppressive drugs is indicated only in these group.
CONCLUSION: The 67Ga imaging is a noninvasive diagnostic method with a good
sensitivity to the diagnostic method with a good sensitivity to the diagnosis of 
AM in children with severe DC, demonstrating to be very useful in the therapeutic
approach.

PMID: 2264767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):23-6.

[Clinical and angiographic characteristics of acute anteroseptal and upper
lateral myocardial infarction: obliquous infarction; proposal of a new
denomination for a specific type of infarction].

[Article in Portuguese]

Harary L(1), Matheus M, de Paola A, Pimenta J.

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Cardiologia do Hospital do Servidor Público Estadual, São Paulo.

Comment in
    Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):75-6.

PURPOSE: Analysis of clinical and angiographic characteristics of oblique
(anteroseptal and high lateral) myocardial infarction.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-two patients, 33 men, aged 30 to 79 years (mean 57)
with oblique myocardial infarction were clinically evaluated and through coronary
arteriography between ten day and eight months (mean of two months) of the acute 
event.
RESULTS: Twenty patients had severe proximal lesions of left anterior descending 
artery (LAD), being single in thirteen. Four cases showed severe lesions in two
arteries and three cases in three arteries. Fourteen patients exhibited
collateral circulation to LAD or recanalization. Ejection fraction values were
between 0.12 and 0.65 (mean 0.38). Eight patients died, four of them due to
myocardial failure and four due to noncardiac causes. During follow-up angina
pectoris was present in five, stroke in three and pulmonary embolism in two
patients.
CONCLUSION: Oblique myocardial infarction is associated with single and proximal 
lesion of LAD in the majority of the patients who underwent coronary
arteriography, with low incidence of cardiac failure and death.

PMID: 2264766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1990 Jan;54(1):13-21.

[Infective endocarditis: analysis of 300 episodes].

[Article in Portuguese]

Mansur AJ(1), Grinberg M, Gallucci SD, Bellotti G, Jatene A, Pileggi F.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto do Coração do Hospital das Clínicas--FMUSP.

PURPOSE: Study of clinical features and etiologic agents, treatment and mortality
of patients with infective endocarditis (IE).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 300 episodes of IE occurring in 288 patients, ages ranged
between 0.2 and 78 (mean 30.76) years; 185 (62%) episodes occurred in males.
RESULTS: a) etiologic agents: viridans group streptococci in 93 (31%) episodes,
enterococci en 21 (7%), group D-non enterococci in 19 (6%) (13 S. bovis), other
streptococci in 14 (5%), Staphylococcus aureus in 59 (20%), Staphylococcus
epidermidis in 14 (5%), gram-negative bacteria in 16 (5%), gram-positive bacteria
other than streptococci and staphylococci in 8 (3%), fungi in 4 (1%). The
etiologic agents were not identified in 52 (17%) episodes; b) underlying cardiac 
diseases: valvular heart disease in 119 (40%) episodes, congenital heart disease 
in 37 (12%), prosthetic heart valves in 69 (23%), other heart diseases in 6 (2%).
There was no evidence of previous heart disease in 69 (23%); c) treatment:
surgical treatment was undertaken in 102 (34%) episodes. The frequency of
surgical treatment in relation to the etiologic agents ranged between 1%
(non-group D streptococci) and 62% (negative blood cultures). The frequency of
operation in relation to underlying heart disease ranged between 17% (other heart
diseases), 19% (congenital heart disease) and 54% (prosthetic heart valve); d)
mortality: 78 (26%) patients died, 56 (28%) of the 198 submitted to medical
treatment and 22 (21%) of the 102 submitted also to surgical treatment. The
mortality in the different groups of etiologic agents ranged between 5%
(non-group D streptococci) and 62% (gram-positive bacteria other than
streptococci and staphylococci); in relation to the underlying heart disease, the
mortality was 16% in patients with other heart disease, 19% in valvular heart
disease patients, 21% in patients with congenital heart disease, 23% in patients 
without known heart disease and 43% in patients with prosthetic heart valves.
CONCLUSION: The mortality associated with IE remains still high in spite of
modern treatment; the mortality is different in relation to the different
etiologic agents and in relation to the cardiac status before the IE.

PMID: 2264765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Aust Clin Rev. 1990;10(4):135-40.

The evaluation of group education for patients with non-insulin dependent
diabetes at Hollywood Repatriation Hospital in Western Australia.

Gough SJ(1), McCann V, Stark RA.

Author information: 
(1)Diabetic Clinic, Hollywood Repatriation Hospital, Perth, Western Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To enable effective use of hospital resources in relation to staff
time and diabetes education; to ensure that all patients have access to a
standard level of education; and to maintain and/or improve diabetes control.
METHOD: Multiple choice questionnaire to test knowledge; check of individual
biochemical status.
RESULTS: Diabetes knowledge and control were assessed in 51 persons with
non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) attending diabetes group
education sessions at Hollywood Repatriation Hospital in Western Australia. The
programme comprising three 2.5 hour sessions at weekly intervals, was conducted
by the physician, dietitian, nurse educator, podiatrist and physio-therapist.
Groups consisted of 7-14 patients, with partners encouraged to attend, and aimed 
to promote and stimulate discussion on diabetes self-care among participants.
After group education there was a significant improvement in knowledge of
diabetes, blood sugar control and energy balance. This was achieved with a
reduction in staff time, when compared with individual education, and a more
efficient use of hospital resources. Thus, the objectives were realized. It is
concluded that diabetes group education is useful in patients with NIDDM
attending Hollywood Repatriation Hospital.

PMID: 2094202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Aust Clin Rev. 1990;10(2):66-71.

Improving management of urinary incontinence in geriatric centres and nursing
homes. Victorian Geriatricians Peer Review Group.

Fonda D.

Author information: 
Aged and Extended Care Department, Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, Victoria.

OBJECTIVE: To study prevalence and management of urinary incontinence in
institutes and to recommend improved strategies of managing this problem.
METHOD: A one-day census of ten geriatric assessment and rehabilitation services 
and nursing homes was undertaken to estimate the extent and management of urinary
incontinence in Victoria. The definition of incontinence was extended to include 
patients with 'dependent continence', i.e. being dry of urine only as a result of
being reminded or physically assisted.
RESULTS: A total of 1659 patients, comprising 333 short-stay and 1326 nursing
home type patients, was surveyed. The mean age was 77 and 81 years respectively. 
Only 43% and 23% of these patients respectively were independently continent,
whilst 26% and 11% respectively of all patients were dependent continent.
Incontinence occurred once or more per day in 85% of these patients and had
usually been present for at least one month. There was a high association between
incontinence and physical and mental infirmity. Dependent continent patients were
as physically handicapped as their wet counterparts. A diverse range of
management strategies, including various toileting programmes, was employed to
deal with the incontinence. It is concluded that urinary incontinence is more
common than reported in previous studies, largely as a result of the additional
group of patients with dependent continence, a condition that often can be
achieved. Proposed management protocols are outlined which aim to define
different population subgroups that might respond more effectively to the various
interventions available. The need for follow-up appraisal of these interventions 
is emphasized.

PMID: 2078154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Aust Clin Rev. 1990;10(1):7-17.

Hospital communication about drugs: the effect of language on accuracy.

Bailey MM.

Author information: 
Concord Hospital, New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: To review some of the problems associated with the prescription,
supply and administration of drugs in a multicultural environment.
METHOD: Staff questionnaire.
RESULTS: Most respondents indicated the information received from the pharmacy
was satisfactory, that they had read a recent therapeutic bulletin and that they 
could describe prescription handwriting as 'clear and reasonable'. There was
general difficulty in understanding the meaning of Latin abbreviations and a
demonstrated failure to absorb recently circulated information.

PMID: 2078151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Aust Clin Rev. 1990;10(1):32-44.

Quality assurance in Australian hospitals: who does it and how?

Renwick M(1), Harvey R.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Institute of Health, Canberra.

OBJECTIVE: To seek information on the type, method and extent of quality
assurance being undertaken in all public and private hospitals within Australia.
METHOD: Mailed questionnaire.
RESULTS: There was a predominance of two types of review being undertaken. Some
important deficiencies in the quality assurance process were identified. Far more
private than public hospitals reviewed medical records and surveyed patient
satisfaction.

PMID: 2078148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Aust Clin Rev. 1990;10(1):27-31.

Peripheral lymph node biopsies in children under 14 years at Christchurch
Hospital 1982-88: an audit.

Deo S(1), Dawson KP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Christchurch School of Medicine, Christchurch
Hospital, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: To review peripheral lymph node biopsies in children under 14 years of
age.
METHOD: Retrospective audit of biopsy specimens.
RESULTS: Four patients had had no histological diagnosis and no follow-up. Two
patients had no histological diagnosis evident and limited follow-up. Thirteen
patients were diagnosed at biopsy to have non-diagnostic reactive.

PMID: 1706594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Beitr Infusionsther. 1990;26:420-3.

[Guidelines for electronic-data-processing-controlled serial diagnosis of donor
blood samples].

[Article in German]

Fischer-Fröhlich CL(1), Stoll T, Hanfland P.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Transfusionsmedizin Universität Tübingen.

Increasing performance figures and the necessity to save expenses oblige
transfusion services to automatize their donors' laboratory examination.
Sufficient hard- and software for sample distribution and processing is now
available. Following aspects should be regarded when switching to automatic
serial screening:SAFETY: The identity of blood-donor, donation and laboratory
result will be achieved by machine readable labeling and on-line communication
between working-stations and central administration. Flexibility: Easy automatic 
selective laboratory screening will be possible using special barcodes including 
sample identification and working orders. A modular hardware concept with easily 
accessible programming control allows it to implement new devices or methods.
Ergonomy: Automatic sample processing including selective screening and
simultaneous operating robotic sample processors increase working quality, sample
output and time benefits. Economy: Improved working conditions will result in
saving reagents and compensating staff limitations.

PMID: 1703890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Biomed Sci Instrum. 1990;26:213-25.

Dual-task performance on an interactive human/computer space shuttle flight
experiment.

Newman DJ(1), Bussolari SR.

Author information: 
(1)Man-Vehicle Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 02139.

INTRODUCTION: This paper details ground-based results of the Mental Workload and 
Performance Experiment (MWPE) which examines human performance for cognitive
decision-making and eye-hand-coordinated motor tasks. MWPE is manifest on the
International Microgravity Laboratory (IML-1) Space Shuttle Mission and is
scheduled to fly in December of 1990. The MWPE protocol combines a Sternberg
memory search with a Fitts' target acquisition resulting in a "Fittsberg"
dual-task paradigm. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the serial
execution theory underlying the Fittsberg dual-task paradigm.
METHODS: A total of nineteen subjects performed two experimental test batteries. 
Unusual body dynamics were imposed on subjects in order to assess altered
environment performance. In the first test battery, subjects performed
experiments in either the upright postural orientation or the supine (recumbent) 
postural orientation. During the second test battery, an altered environment was 
electronically created by introducing a first-order lag characteristic between
the graphic input device and the computer. Performance and workload were
evaluated by reaction time, movement time, and subjective rating measurements for
the dual-task paradigm.
RESULTS: The major contributors to reaction and movement times are as predicted
by Sternberg and Fitts, however, there are many other influences not accounted
for by the classical models. For MWPE, interdependence among the memory set size 
and index of difficulty experimental variables is in conflict with the serial
execution assumption of the Fittsberg dual-task paradigm.
CONCLUSIONS: When interaction among variables exists, the dual-task paradigm can 
not simply be modeled as a Sternberg memory task plus a Fitts target acquisition,
rather, new performance metrics for the memory search and target acquisition
tasks require that all the significant variables in the MWPE protocol be modeled.
The interdependence among variables hints that the operator incorporates some
degree of parallel processing rather than exclusively performing in a serial
manner.

PMID: 2334770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Biomed Tech (Berl). 1990 Jan-Feb;35(1-2):10-4.

[Intra- and interindividual differences in tensile strength of human bone].

[Article in German]

Jerosch J(1), Muchow H, Clahsen H.

Author information: 
(1)Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Orthopädische Klinik und Poliklinik.

In a biomechanical study we evaluated the stability of human femurs. In order to 
document the inter- and intraindividual differences in bending stability, we
tested 200 bone samples, harvested from the femurs of 5 multiorgan donors. The
bending tests were performed on a material testing machine (ZWICK) under
standardized conditions. Our results revealed significant differences in the
stability of the femurs of the 5 multiorgan donors. Furthermore, there was a
significant difference in breaking strength at different levels of the same
bone.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In studies aimed at evaluating the primary bony
stability of alloimplants after different preservation or sterilization
procedures, the above-mentioned results should be taken into consideration.

PMID: 2317540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Birth Defects Orig Artic Ser. 1990;26(1):43-65.

Acetylation.

Weber WW.

Author information: 
Department of Toxicology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor 48109.

The human acetylation polymorphism has been known for more than three decades
since its discovery during the metabolic investigation of the antituberculous
hydrazine drug, isoniazid. The trait was originally known as the "isoniazid
acetylation polymorphism" but is now usually abbreviated to the "acetylation
polymorphism" because the acetylation of numerous hydrazine and arylamine drugs
and other chemicals are subject to this trait. A. Individuals phenotype as "slow"
acetylators, homozygous for the slow acetylator gene, or "rapid" acetylators
either heterozygous or homozygous for the rapid acetylator gene. Differences in
individual acetylating capacity are ascribed to differences in the activities of 
the arylamine acetylating enzymes (isozymic N-acetyltransferase variants) of the 
liver, intestinal mucosa and certain other tissues. The chromosomal locus of the 
human gene has not been determined, but linkage analysis in mice indicates that
the N-acetyltransferase gene is closely linked to Esterase-1 on mouse chromosome 
8.RECOMMENDATION: 1) That the chromosomal locus of the human acetylator gene(s)
be determined. B. The acetylator phenotype is a lifelong, stable characteristic
of the individual that can be determined by procedures using any of several test 
agents (eg, caffeine, isoniazid, sulfamethazine, sulfapyridine). All suitable
test agents discriminate rapid and slow acetylator phenotypes, whereas caffeine
enables homozygous and heterozygous rapid acetylators to be discriminated from
each other and from slow acetylators. These procedures can be used with
confidence to determine the acetylator status of healthy adults and children but 
caution is necessary in interpreting this information for infants, in altered
physiologic states and in the presence of certain diseases and environmental
substances. RECOMMENDATIONs: 1) That investigators should strongly consider the
use of the caffeine test for acetylator phenotype determination in human
epidemiologic studies of acetylation because of its advantages over other test
agents that are available. 2) That efforts to determine the structure of the
acetylator genes responsible for the human acetylator polymorphism, and to
determine the genes responsible for the hereditary acetylator polymorphisms in
animal models for the human trait be continued apace with efforts on the human
system. 3) That an improved test to determine the acetylator status utilizing
that information and current molecular biology approaches and techniques applied 
to tissues that are readily available in human subjects (eg, leukocytes) be
developed at a high priority. C. The hereditary acetylator status of individuals 
provides valuable information about their therapeutic, pharmacologic and
toxicologic responses and is a prognosticator of unusual susceptibility to
toxicity from drugs widely used for the treatment of diverse diseases.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2224079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Bull Cancer Radiother. 1990;77(2):125-34.

[Biological equivalency of high single doses used in intraoperative irradiation].

[Article in French]

Dutreix J(1), Cosset JM, Girinsky T.

Author information: 
(1)Département des radiations et Unité INSERM 247, Villejuif, France.

Intra-operative radiotherapy is being used more and more frequently; this raises 
the problem of the equivalence of these large doses delivered in a single
fraction, especially when a second line, complementary external irradiation is
planned afterwards. The linear quadratic (LQ) model is probably the most
convenient way to compare 2 irradiation schedules delivered with different doses 
per fraction. However, in the case of intra-operative radiotherapy, one should
question the use of the LQ equation; this model actually predicts a continuous
bending of the survival curve, while most experimental curves show a trend
towards exponential at high dose levels. As a result, with the very large doses
(20-30 Gy) given here, the LQ model would lead to overestimate the efficacy--and 
the toxicity--of intra-operative irradiation. We thus propose to calculate the
equivalent fractionated doses by combining 2 models; the LQ model, considered to 
be reliable up to 7 Gy, and the 2 components' target model, which tends towards
an exponential at high dose level. Moreover, we must take into account the
hypoxic component of the tumour, since the single fraction, intra-operative
technique cannot benefit from the reoxygenation occurring during conventional
fractionated irradiations. Calculations indicate that for a partially hypoxic
tumour, the effect of a large dose (20-30 Gy) is very similar to the one which
would be achieved by the same dose given in a conventionally fractionated way,
increased by the dose necessary to compensate for the proliferation occurring
during treatment. For healthy tissues, assuming that all cells are well
oxygenated, the equivalent fractionated dose is, in particular, much higher for
late responding tissues.IN CONCLUSION: 1) there is little hope for sterilizing
any carcinoma with only one fraction of 20-30 Gy; 2) however, intra-operative
irradiation, focussing on a small volume, could contribute to the tumour
eradication; 3) the intra-operative irradiation technique should, as much as
possible, spare the neighbouring normal tissues, regarding the risks of long term
complications.

PMID: 8703548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Cardiovasc Res. 1990 Jan;24(1):33-6.

Inter- and intrasubject variability of the thermodilution measurement of right
ventricular ejection fraction and volume in patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.

Schrijen F(1), Henriquez A, Renondo J, Poincelot F, Pichene M.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM Unité 14, Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the spontaneous changes in volumetric indices of
right ventricular function assessed by thermodilution.
DESIGN: The study involved measurements of inter- and intraindividual variation
of right ventricular function in human subjects at rest and at two different
levels of low load supine bicycle exercise.
SUBJECTS: The subjects were 23 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, referred for evaluation by right heart catheterisation. Mean (SEM) age
was 55.4 (2.2) years and all were in sinus rhythm.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Successive measurements of ejection fraction and right 
ventricular end diastolic and end systolic volumes were made by thermodilution
with a fast response thermistor mounted in a Swan-Ganz catheter. Five
measurements were made at rest (R), and three measurements during each of two
levels of exercise (E1, E2). Group average values for each period showed no
significant changes with time; interindividual variability was expressed as the
coefficient of variation (VC1 = SD/means), intraindividual variability (VC2) as
square root of mean value of individual variances. Interindividual variability
increased from rest to exercise, while intraindividual variability was lower
during exercise, presumably because the variables were more steady. For ejection 
fraction, VC1, was 23% at rest, 29% for E1 and 32% for E2, while VC2 was 21%, 12%
and 15% respectively; for right ventricular end diastolic volume, VC1 was 23% at 
rest, 29% and 28% during exercise, and VC2 was 17%, 12% and 11% respectively. In 
some patients cold injection induced bradycardia and spuriously high values of
ejection fraction. CONCLUSIONS - It is important to monitor heart rate before and
during thermodilution measurements and to take into account only those made with 
stable heart rate. Injectate temperature should be above 10 degrees C.

PMID: 2328512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Cardiovasc Res. 1990 Jan;24(1):13-8.

Response of tertiary centres to pressure changes. Is there a mechano-electrical
association?

Sideris DA(1), Toumanidis ST, Kostis EB, Stagiannis K, Spyropoulos G, Moulopoulos
SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Therapeutics, Medical School, Athens University, Alexandra
General Hospital, Greece.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To investigate the mechanism of pressure related ventricular
arrhythmias by examining them during atrioventricular (AV) block.
DESIGN: Complete AV block, where all ventricular beats are ectopic, was induced
by AV node ablation and/or by toxic digitalisation, and rhythm changes were
studied while arterial blood pressure was repeatedly raised and lowered.
SUBJECTS: 15 anaesthetised mongrel dogs, weight 15-28 kg, were used. AV block was
induced in eight by chemical or mechanical ablation of the AV node. In five of
these and in seven other dogs, 5.0-7.5 mg digoxin was also given.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Following AV block due to ablation, a heart rate
increase (or no change) was found in 87.5% of 56 arterial pressure increases
produced by elevation of an open arterial blood reservoir or by metaraminol
infusion, but in only 21.8% of 55 pressure decreases caused by arterial bleeding 
(p much less than 0.001). Following AV block due to digitalisation, the
equivalent figures were 96% of 50 pressure increases and 27.3% of 55 pressure
decreases (p much less than 0.001). While arterial pressure was increased there
was moderate acceleration of the escape rhythm, then appearance of premature
ventricular beats, then non-sustained and finally sustained ventricular
tachycardia. The reverse occurred, with some hysteresis, on decreasing the
arterial pressure. In five of the digitalised animals, arterial pressure
reduction to nearly zero caused reproducible sudden arrest, with resumption of
the ordinary escape rhythm on increasing the pressure again.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest the possibility of two kinds of ectopic rhythm 
in AV block: the "normal" escape rhythm which is only moderately affected by
arterial pressure changes; and an "abnormal" faster pressure dependent rhythm
which is generated by high arterial pressure and abolished by pressure near zero,
as if there were a mechano-electrical association. This abnormal rhythm may
prevail completely in digitalis toxicity so that if cardiac arrest occurs, no
automaticity can be expected to appear unless arterial pressure is raised.

PMID: 2328509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Chest. 1990 Jan;97(1):69-74.

Yield of percutaneous needle lung aspiration in lung abscess.

Peña Griñan N(1), Muñoz Lucena F, Vargas Romero J, Alfageme Michavila I, Umbria
Dominguez S, Florez Alia C.

Author information: 
(1)Valme University Hospital, Seville, Spain.

Comment in
    Chest. 1990 Jan;97(1):1-2.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy of PLA with a thin needle in the
bacteriologic diagnosis of patients with lung abscess and in demonstrating
possible coexistence of an underlying lung carcinoma, and the influence of this
technique in the treatment and outcome of these patients.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: Tertiary university referral center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 50 patients with clinical picture suggestive of
pulmonary infection and single or multiple cavitation of at least 1 cm in
diameter on chest x-ray films, and lack of clinical suspicion of active pulmonary
tuberculosis. One patient was excluded from the study after demonstration of
tuberculosis by PLA.
INTERVENTIONS: Lung aspirates were obtained under fluoroscopic guidance by
introduction of a 22-gauge disposable spinal needle within the abscess cavity and
were immediately transported to the bacteriology laboratory and pathology
department for processing. All patients were initially treated with clindamycin. 
Tobramycin was added in all those patients with hospital-acquired infection, lack
of foulness of sputum, and those who were initially severely ill. Definite
treatment was based on the results of bacteriologic cultures.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Cultures of LAs were positive in 82 percent
(40/49) of patients. In 20 cases the isolates were monobacterial (13 aerobic
bacteria and seven anaerobic). In the remaining 20 cases, cultures grew more than
one kind of bacteria (four exclusively aerobic, five exclusively anaerobic, and
11 mixed), with an average of 3.25 types of bacteria per case. Anaerobes were
found as a single bacteria or associated with other aerobic bacteria in only 58
percent (23/40). The results of LA cultures led to change in the initial
antibiotic trial in 23 patients (47 percent). Of ten cases in which bronchogenic 
carcinoma was demonstrated, cytologic study of LA was done in nine, and eight had
positive cytologic yield. Pneumothorax occurred in seven cases (14 percent) as
the sole complication.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Percutaneous lung aspiration had a high diagnostic yield and
accuracy in our series, with a relatively low incidence of complications. (2)
Anaerobic bacteria were less frequently implicated in our cases than previously
reported. This finding led to significant changes in the initial empiric
antibiotic treatment.

PMID: 2295263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Chir Pediatr. 1990;31(4-5):217-8.

[Contribution of continuous peridural analgesia to neo-natal surgery].

[Article in French]

Terrier G(1), Lansade A, Ugazzi M, Favereau JP, Longis B, Alain JL.

Author information: 
(1)Département d'Anesthésie-Réanimation, CHU Dupuytren, Limoges.

Continuous epidural analgesia is an common technique in neo-natal surgery. It
will be possible with a fitting material. Principal indications are: omphalocele,
gastroschisis, oesophagol atresia an diagphragmatic hernia.TECHNIQUE: our
protocol has been approved by the Regional Ethical Committee and informed written
consent has been obtained from parents. General anaesthesia was induced and
children were placed in lateral position. After skin preparation, the interspace 
L 3-L 4 has been punctured to identify the epidural space by loss of resistance. 
An epidural catheter (19 to 27 G) has been placed. 0.5 ml.kg-1 of 0.25%
bupivacaine have been immediately injected, followed by a continuous injection of
0.3 ml.kg-1h-1 of the same bupivacaine. Epidural has been kept for four to five
days.
ADVANTAGES: very good analgesia; abdominal and vascular pressures decreased; to
wean from respirator very quickly. No accident was founded.

PMID: 2083455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Chirurgie. 1990;116(3):290-4; discussion 294-5.

[Decision-making for lymph node excision in surgery of thyroid cancer.
Extemporaneous examination of the external supraclavicular lymph nodes].

[Article in French]

Proye C(1), Gontier A, Quievreux JL, Carnaille B, Harrisson BJ, Camp D,
Lecomte-Houcke M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique chirurgicales Adultes Est, service de Chirurgie générale et
endocrinienne, C.H.U. de Lille, hôpital Huriez.

Modified neck dissection (MND) is not recommended for surgery of thyroid
carcinoma (TC) in the absence of grossly involved nodes, except for medullary
thyroid carcinoma, and clinical node recurrence in uncommon at follow-up (3% for 
us). But several authors report metastatic cancer in non-palpable nodes up to 70%
on MND specimens. The fear of overlooking occult metastatic nodes prompted us to 
sample even normal appearing nodes and to rely on frozen sections (FS) to make a 
decision whether or not a MND should be done.PATIENTS AND METHODS: 130 among 300 
consecutive patients operated for TC were submitted to supraclavicular node
sampling with FS. All pathological varieties were covered. In 170 cases, sampling
was not done purposely (lack of intraoperative diagnosis of carcinoma: 75) or for
other reasons (absence of obvious nodes: 77; unavailable pathologist: 14;
miscellaneous: 4). All specimens were reviewed by paraffin sections (PS).
RESULTS: Among the 130 patients; 25 had gross metastatic node involvement,
confirmed by FS+ and PS+; 1 had grossly equivocal nodes with FS- and PS+; 104 had
grossly normal nodes. In 101 (97%) this was confirmed by FS- and PS-. In 3 (3%)
FS was +, leading to MND, and PS confirmed metastatic involvement in 2. All 32
specimens of routine node sampling done in 1988 have been reviewed by serial
cross sections, one each millimeter (331 sections). One only disclosed one occult
metastatic invasion.
CONCLUSION: No more than 3% of the grossly normal supraclavicular nodes are
metastatic at the time of surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2279446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1990;12(4):533-49.

Increased activity of digoxin-like substance in low-renin hypertension in
acromegaly.

Soszyński P(1), Słowińska-Srzednicka J, Zgliczyński S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Medical Center for Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland.

Arterial hypertension is common in acromegaly, but the pathogenesis of this
complication remains unknown. To determine the role of an endogenous Na,K pump
inhibitor/digoxin-like substance (DLS) in the pathogenesis of hypertension in
acromegaly 76 subjects: 28 with acromegaly, 20 with essential hypertension and 28
healthy controls were studied. Serum DLS was measured with the use of
radioimmunoassay and bioassay by the inhibition of digoxin-sensitive erythrocyte 
86-Rb uptake. In acromegaly, the activity of DLS was significantly increased and 
plasma renin activity decreased in the hypertensive group, as compared with that 
of the normotensive group and controls. Moreover, DLS was elevated in the
low-renin group of essential hypertension, as compared with that of the
normal/high-renin group or controls. The activity of DLS correlated positively
with mean arterial pressure and negatively with plasma renin activity, but not
with growth hormone levels.IN CONCLUSION: an endogenous sodium pump
inhibitor/digoxin-like substance may play a role in the pathogenesis of low-renin
hypertension in acromegaly.

PMID: 2196126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Clin Intensive Care. 1990;1(4):150-6.

Attitudes to the delivery of enteral nutritional support to patients in British
intensive care units.

Adam SK(1), Webb AR.

Author information: 
(1)Bloomsbury Department of Intensive Care Medicine, The Middlesex Hospital, London,
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the relative roles of medical, nursing and dietetic staff
in the nutritional support of critically ill patients and the methods used to
calculate energy requirements.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire.
SETTING: United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: Medical, nursing and dietetic staff of 289 hospitals with three or 
more intensive care beds.
RESULTS: Replies were received from 50.3% of participants. Doctors more commonly 
claimed responsibility for starting enteral nutrition (81.1%) although nurses and
dietitians claimed a share of the decision in 28.6% and 11.4% of replies
respectively. Doctors claimed that they alone prescribed enteral nutrition in
52.8% of replies and with dietitians in 17.3% of cases whereas the dietitians
claimed that they alone prescribed in 46.6% of replies and with doctors in 22.7%.
Estimation was the commonest method used to assess patient energy requirements
(68% of doctors, 59.5% of nurses and 51.1% of dietitians). Most respondents
believed that this was adequate although not accurate.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evident confusion between medical, nursing and dietetic
staff over responsibility for enteral nutrition. Without a co-ordinated team
approach advances in the enteral nutritional support of critically ill patients
are unlikely. Indirect calorimetry, an accurate predictor of an individual
patient's energy requirements, has not gained widespread acceptance but will be
necessary to tailor nutritional support to individual requirements.

PMID: 10149075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1990;96(1):181-6.

Intestinal transport of potassium. Effects of changing apical and basolateral
influx of sodium in the isolated mucosa of the hen (Gallus domesticus) colon.

Munck LK(1), Munck BG.

Author information: 
(1)Bispebjerg Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine P, Copenhagen, Denmark.

1. Net potassium secretion (JKnet) by the sodium-depleted hen's colon (low sodium
colon) is 0.17 +/- 0.07 mumol/cm2.hr. Amiloride or ouabain eliminates short
circuit currents (Isc) of 16-20 mumol/cm2.hr without affecting JKsm. 2. In the
NaCl-loaded hen's colon (high sodium colon) stimulating Isc by (a) glucose, (b)
amino acids, and inhibiting with (c) ouabain changes JKnet from 0.08 +/- 0.04 to 
(a) 0.42 +/- 0.07, to (b) 0.60 +/- 0.07 to (c) 0.13 +/- 0.13 mumol/cm2.hr. 3. In 
both colonic types theophylline increases and bumetanide decreases JKnet by 1
mumol/cm2.hr. 4.CONCLUSION: Apical membranes of sodium-absorbing and
chloride-secreting cells of the high sodium colon are potassium permeable. In the
low sodium colon sodium-absorbing cells have potassium-impermeable apical
membranes.

PMID: 1975534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Czech Med. 1990;13(4):168-74.

Analysis of glycosylated serum protein changes using a computer model.

Svacina S(1), Hovorka R, Skrha J, Masek Z.

Author information: 
(1)3rd Chair of Internal Medicine, Charles University Medical Faculty Prague.

The authors devised a computer model of albumin glycosylation based on
irreversible glycosylation reaction of first-order kinetics. The dynamism of
glycosylated albumin changes in relation to glycaemic profiles was compared with 
an earlier model of haemoglobin glycosylation. A non-linear regression analysis
was employed to calculate the parameters of the model in three groups of
patients.CONCLUSIONS: 1. Erythrocyte pool stratification accounts for the smaller
clinical difference between glycosylated protein and haemoglobin than would
correspond to their respective half-life values. 2. Glycosylated proteins are
probably eliminated more rapidly than non-glycosylated proteins. 3. Higher levels
of glycosylated proteins are occasionally at variance with model calculations, a 
fact which is probably due to other factors.

PMID: 2081441  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Dermatol Monatsschr. 1990;176(5-6):313-6.

[8-MOP serum level profile following administration of Geroxalen to patients with
psoriasis and a control group].

[Article in German]

Walther T(1), Haustein UF.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hautkrankheiten, Bereichs Medizin der
Karl-Marx-Universität Leipzig.

After 8-MOP application (Geroxalen) the mean serum levels with 11 single values
over 8 hours from 21 psoriatics with squamous infiltrative plaques do not differ 
from serum level curves of 46 healthy volunteers (Psoriatics: maximum plasma
level cmax 189 nm 8 MOP/ml serum at the time tmax 1,2h; area under the curve
AUC0-8 284 ng.ml-1.h.CONTROL GROUP: cmax 193 ng 8 MOP/ml serum; tmax 0.9h; AUC0-8
290 ng.ml-1.h). A malabsorption of 8-MOP in psoriatic patients could not be found
in our study, although this is described for fat among other.

PMID: 2227048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Dev Pharmacol Ther. 1990;15(2):86-93.

Comparative effects of bicarbonate and dichloroacetate in newborn swine with
hypoxic lactic acidosis.

Nudel DB(1), Peterson BJ, Buckley BJ, Kaplan NA, Weinhaouse E, Gootman N.

Author information: 
(1)Schneider Children's Hospital, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, 
N.Y.

Sodium bicarbonate (BC) and dichloroacetate (DCA) were studied in 7- to
14-day-old (n = 25) anesthetized swine with hypoxic acidosis. BC (base deficit X 
kg X 0.3, n = 10), DCA (300 mg/kg, n = 7) or saline (n = 8) was infused for 1 h. 
Blood lactic acid, dP/dtmax, heart rate and cardiac output increased and base
excess and total arterial and carotid resistances (R) decreased with acidosis;
aortic pressure, renal and mesenteric R did not change. BC induced higher pH,
base excess and lactic acid. Heart rate in all and dP/dtmax with BC and DCA were 
restored; renal and mesenteric R and aortic pressure decreased in all.
Cardiovascular responses to DCA and BC did not differ except for renal
R.CONCLUSION: BC is a more effective alkalizer than DCA, which induced a greater 
renal vasodilation; both restored contractility.

PMID: 1964114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Digestion. 1990;45(1):9-18.

Interactions between antral peptides and prostaglandin biosynthesis in gastric
acid regulation in man.

Befrits R(1), Uvnäs-Moberg K, Johansson C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

The role of endogenous prostaglandins as modulators of antral hormone release and
gastric acid secretion was studied in the intact human stomach. The subjects (n =
9) received indomethacin prior to gastric perfusion at pH greater than 7 or less 
than 2 and subsequent vagal stimulation. Indomethacin was also tested against
parenteral somatostatin (n = 10) and pentagastrin (n = 8). The release of
somatostatin into the circulation was biphasic after vagal stimulation, and the
plasma levels were inversely proportional to those of plasma gastrin.
Acidification of the gastric antrum from pH greater than 7 to less than 2
increased twofold the basal plasma levels of somatostatin (p less than 0.05) and 
suppressed basal and vagally stimulated gastrin release (p less than 0.05) and
gastric acid secretion (p less than 0.05). Indomethacin prior to acidification
had little effect in the basal state. Following stimulation the release of
somatostatin increased, as indicated by a twofold elevation of somatostatinlike
immunoreactivity in the gastric lumen (p less than 0.05), but there was less
inhibition of plasma gastrin (p less than 0.05) and gastric acid secretion (p
less than 0.05) as compared to acidification alone. During alkaline gastric
perfusion, indomethacin increased circulating somatostatin (p less than 0.05)
levels without affecting plasma gastrin or gastric acid. Indomethacin given
against intravenously infused somatostatin (0.1 microgram.kg-1.h-1) partially
reversed the inhibited gastrin response to vagal stimulation without affecting
somatostatin-suppressed gastric acid secretion. The effects of indomethacin
against pentagastrin were marginal.IN CONCLUSION: Gastric acidification in man
stimulates plasma release of somatostatin in parallel to suppressing gastrin
release and gastric acid secretion. Endogenous prostanoids participate to
regulate antral hormone interactions and may have dual actions on antral
somatostatin, as negative modulators of release and as mediators of somatostatin 
effects on the gastrin cell. It is suggested that an unrestricted release of
antral somatostatin is reflected in the gastric lumen rather than in the
circulation.

PMID: 1971245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Endocr Res. 1990;16(1):1-15.

Contribution of stored rat growth hormone to restoration of depleted rat
pituitary immediate release pools.

Stachura ME(1), Tyler JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta.

Stored rat pituitary growth hormone (GH) is functionally divided into immediately
releasable and more stable compartments. These observations are consistent with
either intracellular hormone compartmentalization within cells of a functionally 
homogeneous somatotroph population or summed responses from a heterogeneous
population of functionally specialized cell subgroups. We investigated the
pituitary's ability to recruit stored rGH to replenish depleted immediate release
pools. We used perifused pituitary fragments whose stored rGH was labeled during 
pre-incubation in the presence of [3H]leucine. Initial immediate release pool
depletion was accomplished by continuous exposure to combined 21 mM potassium ion
(K+) and 1 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP). During a subsequent perifusion
period in the presence of either no secretagogue, continuing 21 mM K+, or
continuing 1 mM dbcAMP, we examined release of stored [3H]rGH in response to
repetitive 15 min pulses of 21 mM K+ or 1 mM dbcAMP. Analysis was by specific
immunoprecipitation. We had demonstrated that K+ and dbcAMP pulses can stimulate 
repetitive, albeit diminishing, stored [3H]rGH release responses. However,
following pre-treatment with combined 21 mM K+ and 1 mM dbcAMP: (i) pulses of
dbcAMP stimulated almost no stored [3H]rGH release in the presence of 21 mM K+ or
in the absence of a background secretagogue; and (ii) stored [3H]rGH release in
response to pulses of K+ was attenuated in the absence of background secretagogue
but fully restored in the presence of dbcAMP.CONCLUSIONS: (i) at least some
individual somatotrophs can compartmentalize stored hormone; and (ii) an active
transport system facilitates restoration of somatotroph immediate release pools
using stored rGH.

PMID: 2158434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Eur J Cancer. 1990 Jan;26(1):37-44.

Percoll density gradient centrifugation of rat pituitary tumor cells: a study of 
functional heterogeneity within and between tumors with respect to growth rates, 
prolactin production and responsiveness to the somatostatin analog SMS 201-995.

Hofland LJ(1), van Koetsveld PM, Lamberts SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Erasmus University, The Netherlands.

Tumor cells prepared from PRL-secreting rat pituitary 7315b tumors of increasing 
weight were separated on continuous Percoll density gradients, according to
differences in their density. Whether the cell subpopulations obtained by density
gradient separation showed differences in protein content per cell, PRL
production per cell, growth rates and responsiveness to the somatostatin analog
SMS 201-995 in vitro was investigated. In addition, we studied PRL release by
individual 7315b tumor cells, using the reverse hemolytic plaque assay (RHPA).
The tumor cells from tumors of increasing weight were recovered within a narrow
density range (1.060-1.070 g/ml) and showed a normal distribution profile. There 
were no differences between the subpopulations with respect to the parameters
mentioned above. Moreover, no differences were found with respect to these
parameters between tumor cells derived from tumors of increasing weight. In
agreement with the above data we found no evidence for subtype of adenoma cells
being preferentially responsive to SMS 201-995, using the RHPA.CONCLUSIONS: (1)
the transplantable PRL-secreting rat pituitary tumor 7315b consists of a
functionally homogeneous cell population; (2) growth of this tumor in vivo does
not lead to the induction of functionally heterogeneous cell subpopulations
within this tumor; (3) the escape of this tumor from the tumor growth-inhibitory 
effect of SMS 201-995, which has previously been demonstrated in vivo, may not
have been the result of clonal selection of somatostatin-unresponsive cells.

PMID: 2138476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 1990;38(6):595-8.

Absorption kinetics of oral and rectal flecainide in healthy subjects.

Lie-A-Huen L(1), Proost JH, Kingma JH, Meijer DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The
Netherlands.

The absorption kinetics of different pharmaceutical formulations of orally and
rectally administered flecainide have been assessed in a cross-over study in 7
healthy volunteers. The subjects received single doses of flecainide after a
washout period of at least one week. A tablet, an oral solution, a rectal
solution and a 10 min i.v. infusion during 10 min each containing 100 mg
flecainide were administered to the subjects in a randomized order. The mean
absolute bioavailability was 98%, 78% and 81% for the rectal and oral solutions
and the tablet. The lag time after administration of the oral solution was 0.33 h
and it was 0.86 h after the tablet and 0.18 h after the rectal solution. The mean
time to the peak serum concentration (tmax) after the rectal solution (0.67 h)
was shorter than after either the tablet (4 h) or oral solution (1 h). The
maximum serum concentration (Cmax) was 0.29 mg.l-1 after the rectal solution,
0.14 mg.l-1 after the tablet and 0.17 mg.l-1 after the oral solution. All the
volunteers showed significantly higher serum flecainide concentrations during the
first 20 min of the absorption phase after rectal administration of 100 mg
flecainide as a solution compared to its oral administration.IN CONCLUSION: based
on the absolute bioavailability, Cmax, tmax, and lag times, rectal administration
of flecainide solution gave a better absorption profile than after oral tablet or
solution.

PMID: 2115446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Exp Brain Res. 1990;82(3):589-96.

Expression of Tau protein and Tau mRNA in the cerebellum during axonal outgrowth.

Couchie D(1), Legay F, Guilleminot J, Lebargy F, Brion JP, Nunez J.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 282-CNRS, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

"In situ" hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis of the expression of Tau
mRNAs and Tau proteins in the developing cerebellum showed that: 1. At early
postnatal stages Tau mRNAs are expressed in the deeper region of the external
granular layer (EGL II) i.e. in the cells that begin to migrate from the
proliferative zone. Little labeling was seen in the upper layer (EGL I) where the
cerebellar interneurons actively proliferate during the first two postnatal
weeks. Anti-Tau antibodies failed to detect Tau proteins both in EGL I and II. 2.
Tau transcripts were also clearly detected in the migrating cells present in the 
molecular layer; no Tau immunoreactivity was seen in this layer. This suggests
that Tau mRNAs remain very poorly translated in the migrating granule cells and
in the other interneurons. 3. Tau proteins begin to be detected at postnatal day 
8 in the molecular layer but only at the level of the parallel fibers that are
present in the Purkinje cell dendritic field. This suggests that the Tau mRNAs
transcribed in the migrating cells are not actively translated for several days
and that Tau proteins accumulate only in the more mature sections of their axons,
the parallel fibers.IN CONCLUSION: Tau mRNAs are transcribed in the migrating
cells several days before Tau proteins are actively translated and transported to
their axons. Tau proteins accumulation occurs only at the end of granule cell
migration i.e. when the parallel fibers interact with their post-synaptic
counterparts, the dendrites of the Purkinje cells. Thus, axonal outgrowth and
differentiation seem to be a multistep process.

PMID: 2127256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Eye (Lond). 1990;4 ( Pt 4):577-83.

The development of cataract following trabeculectomy.

Clarke MP(1), Vernon SA, Sheldrick JH.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Unit of Ophthalmology, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk of cataract development following
trabeculectomy.
DESIGN: A prospective follow-up study of patients seen pre-operatively and at
one, three, six and 12 months following surgery and subsequently at yearly
intervals.
SETTING: Ophthalmology Department of Nottingham University Hospital.
PATIENTS: Fifty-seven patients with primary open angle glaucoma, including
pseudoexfoliation, undergoing trabeculectomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Increases in lens opacity measured by the Lens Opacity
Meter 701, the Keeler Projectoscopy and clinical grading.
RESULTS: Of 35 patients seen at six months post-operatively, none had lost two
Snellen lines of visual acuity due to lens opacity, although three patients
showed evidence of increasing lens opacity on all three parameters.
CONCLUSION: There is no evidence of visually significant lens opacity occurring
at six months post-operative follow-up.

PMID: 2226987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Eye (Lond). 1990;4 ( Pt 4):548-56.

Secondary intraocular lens implantation: eight year experience.

Hayward JM(1), Noble BA, George N.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Department, Leeds General Infirmary.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the outcome of secondary intra-ocular lens
implantation. Neither a requirement for vitreous surgery nor previous complicated
eye surgery/trauma was considered necessarily to be a contra-indication.
DESIGN: Retrospective Study. Recruitment was achieved by examination of operating
theatre records.
SETTING: Teaching Hospital.
PATIENTS: 52 out of 54 consecutive cases in whom a secondary lens had been
implanted from 1982-1989 under the care of one consultant (BAN).
INTERVENTIONS: The medical records of all patients were reviewed and data
collected for 52 of the total of 54 patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual acuity and major complications.
RESULTS: 77% of eyes retained the same Snellen visual acuity or better than that 
pre-operatively and 88% were within one line or better. The Mann Whitney U-test
showed that neither vitreous manipulation at the time of secondary lens
implantation nor a previous history of trauma had a significant effect on the
change between pre- and post-operative Snellen visual acuity. Only one patient
developed a retinal detachment and eight had cystoid macula oedema although in
only one patient did this account for a final decrease in post-operative visual
acuity of more than one line. The most common complication was an intense
post-operative uveitis (35%) leading in some cases to indefinite low dose topical
steroid treatment (21%).
CONCLUSIONS: This technique gives good visual results, even in the disorganised
eye, providing the vitreous is adequately managed. However there is a significant
complication rate which should be discussed with the patient before undertaking
surgery.

PMID: 2226983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Eye (Lond). 1990;4 ( Pt 3):450-5.

Secondary evaluation of hydrogel lens implants.

Noble BA(1), Hayward JM, Huber C.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Department, Leeds General Infirmary.

OBJECTIVE: To review patients currently forming part of a study of poly 2
hydroxyethylmethacrylate (P-HEMA) 'Hydrogel' intraocular lenses.
DESIGN: Patients were taking part in the Hydrogel arm of a prospective trial at
Scarborough Hospital. Recruitment was by letter.
SETTING: District General Hospital.
PATIENTS: One hundred and eight from the Scarborough trial in whom a Hydrogel
lens had been implanted.
INTERVENTIONS: An independent assessment was carried out at a median interval of 
20 months following surgery. Visual acuities were assessed with best possible
refraction and the eyes examined both before and after pupil dilation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual acuity and major complications.
RESULTS: 91% had visual acuities of 6/9 or better and 30% achieved 6/5. In 61%
the central area (3 mm diameter) of posterior capsule was clear but 39% had
significant fibrosis or pearl formation in this area and 8% had undergone
posterior capsulotomy. Five major decentrations had taken place, one of which
occurred following a spontaneous rupture of the posterior capsule 17.6% of
patients showed significant pigment dispersion behind the IOL either on the
posterior capsule or in the anterior vitreous that could not be accounted for
purely by surgical trauma. An atonic iris sphincter was noted in 17% of eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: This lens gives good visual results but its stability and tendency
to cause pigment shedding need to be closely monitored.

PMID: 2209908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


66. G Ital Cardiol. 1990 Jan;20(1):5-11.

[Carotid sinus syndrome and sick sinus syndrome: 2 frequent and distinct
indications for pacemaker implantation].

[Article in Italian]

Brignole M(1), Menozzi C, Lolli G, Oddone D, Gianfranchi L, Cogorno S, Bertulla
A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di elettrofisiologia ed impianto pacemaker, Servizio di Cardiologia, 
Ospedali Riuniti, Lavagna.

At present, patients affected by carotid sinus syndrome and, more general by
speaking, by vasovagal syncopes, are being considered more and more for pacemaker
implant. However, neither the real incidence of the carotid sinus syndrome or its
relation with the sick sinus syndrome with which it is often associated or even
confused is precisely known. Of a total of 298 consecutive pacemaker implants, 36
(12%) were executed for carotid sinus syndrome, 33 (11%) for sick sinus syndrome 
and 24 (8%) for both. The annual incidence was respectively of 40, 37 and 26
implants per year/million of inhabitants. Patients affected by carotid sinus
syndrome, when compared with those affected by sick sinus syndrome, showed: a
higher prevalence of syncopes (97 vs 42%) more syncopal episodes per patient (2.9
+/- 2 vs 1.8 +/- 0.9), a lower prevalence of associated cardiac diseases (53 vs
100%), cardiac enlargement (36 vs 88%), heart failure (6 vs 36%) and paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation (0 vs 97%), a more frequent indication to VVI pacing (75 vs
3%). Generally, when both syndromes were present, the patients showed
intermediate characteristics.IN CONCLUSION: carotid sinus syndrome is a frequent 
indication of cardiac pacing as sick sinus syndrome; even if an association is
present in about one third of patients, a distinction between carotid sinus
syndrome and sick sinus syndrome is justified by theoretical and practical
considerations.

PMID: 2328858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1990 Jan;17(1):97-102.

[Sensitivity test for anti-tumor agents. 1. Application of human cord serum--as
cellular growth factor].

[Article in Japanese]

Wada Y(1), Tomiyoshi Y, Kimura Y, Fujimaru J, Ogura M, Yoshida S, Takeda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Obstetrics Gynecology, Tokyo Women's Medical College Daini Hospital.

For the purpose to establish a rapid, accurate, in vitro drug sensitivity test,
we have been working on surgical specimens and malignant effusions. For the
primary cultures, we used cellular medium PRMI-1640 with 10% fetal calf serum
(FCS). For the successful tissue culture, human cord serum (HCS) was in stead of 
FCS in this study. For the preparation of HCS, human cord blood was obtained
aseptically just after the second stage of labor from the uncomplicated pregnant 
women. The serum was separated, filtrated, being confirmed negative Mycoplasma
contamination, and inactivated by keeping in a water bath at 56 degrees C for 30 
min. The experimental materials were T-24, HeLa and Vero cells. These cellular
suspension samples in RPMI1640 with FCS or HCS were kept in 5% CO2 incubator at
37 degrees C for 120 hours. Estimation and evaluation of this test in comparison 
of FCS with HCS were made on the following points. 1. Cellular proliferation on
the crystal violet staining. 2. Cellular function test by MTT assay. 3. Cellular 
morphologic changes on microscopic examination.CONCLUSIONS: 1. HCS, as well as
FCS, seemed to be a good cellular growth factor. 2. 5% HCS is compatible with 10%
FCS for good cellular development.

PMID: 2297242  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1990 Jan;17(1):89-95.

[Basic study on the chemosensitivity test by miniaturized improved nucleic acid
precursor incorporation assay (MINI assay)].

[Article in Japanese]

Mogi M(1), Motohashi M, Hirota T, Ohshima K, Takahashi N, Kinoshita Y, Tanigawa
M, Yoshinobu T, Koya Y, Masutani M, et al.

Author information: 
(1)First Dept. of Internal Medicine, Nihon University School of Medicine.

Miniaturized improved nucleic acid precursor incorporation assay (MINI assay) has
been developed by Kern D. H. and Tanigawa N. et al since 1985. We investigated in
vitro effects of mitomycin C (MMC), cisplatin (CDDP) and bleomycin (BLM) against 
A 549 lung cancer cells and HeLa cells by MINI assay.RESULTS: 3H-thymidine
(3H-TdR) uptake in the positive control was 734.2 cpm +/- 10 cpm. The cut-off
level for in vitro sensitivity was defined as more than 80% inhibition of 3H-TdR 
uptake in the drug treated cells compared to the positive controls. A 549 cells
were sensitive to MMC (81.6%), CDDP (78.6%), but not to BLM (-57%). HeLa cells
were sensitive to MMC (91%), CDDP (79.4%), but not to BLM (43%). MINI assay could
be done with fewer cells than other methods and the results were obtained within 
5 days. This method was considered to be useful for the chemosensitivity test
with human tumors.

PMID: 1688701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Gastroenterol J. 1990;50(2):78-81.

[Prevalence of cholelithiasis in relation to use of hormonal contraceptives].

[Article in German]

Pannwitz H(1), Berndt H, Nürnberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Innere Abteilung Kreiskrankenhauses Hennigsdorf.

400 women in continuous care of a family planning clinic were examined for
gallbladder stones by standard ultrasound technique. Gallstones (GS) are found
infrequently in nulliparous women (3.1 percent). The prevalence of GS increases
with number of births and with age: 11 percent of female under 25 years of age,
who have ever born, have GS; women aged 45 years and older who have born two or
more children have GS in 35 percent. Duration of use of HC increases with rising 
age and with number of births. There is no regular relationship between duration 
of use of HC or total dose respectively and prevalence of gallbladder
stones.CONCLUSION: Intake of HC has no or only a marginal influence on prevalence
of gallbladder stones.

PIP: 400 women regularly using oral contraceptives (OC) were examined by standard
sonography for signs of gall stones (GS). In the 61 (15.25%) who had GS, the
prevalence was age dependent: up to age 24 the rate was 5.9%, it was almost 20%
in the 25-44 age group, and it reached 30.2% in the 45-54 age group. Among 130
nulliparous women, 4 had GS (3.1%); among 71 with 1 delivery, 11 had GS (15.5%); 
and among 199 of those with 2 or more deliveries, 47 had GS (23.1%). Nulliparous 
women in all age groups had a much lower rate of GS incidence. GS prevalence was 
highest in women who had had multiple deliveries and were of a more advanced age 
(45-54). 19.6% of those up to age 24 used OCs for 1 year, and 3.6% used OCs 5
years, while in the 45-54 age group, 81.1% used OCs for 5 years. The number of GS
carriers increased in proportion to duration of OC use. 4 of 130 mostly young
nulliparas used OC for 1-5 years. All 11 (15.5%) GS carriers among the 71 women
with 1 delivery used OCs for 1 year, and 7 used them for 5 years. 23% of
multiparous women had GS (46 out of 199), and 36 used OCs 5 years. The effect of 
pregnancy is very clear when the nulliparous GS rate (3.1%) is compared to the
rate of all parous women (15.9%, or 43 out of 270). None of the 61 women with GS 
had taken OCs for 1 year, 70.5% had taken them for 5 years, and 29.5% had taken
them for 2-5 years. However, after taking other factors into consideration, it
must be stated that OC use affects the incidence of GS not at all or only
marginally.
PMID: 2222787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Gastroenterol J. 1990;50(4):175-8.

[Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL)--a new procedure for treating
choledocholithiasis].

[Article in German]

Hinz K(1), Schulz HJ, Natho W, Brien G.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin Theodor Brugsch der Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.

ESWL offers a new possibility for the treatment of patients suffering from bile
duct stones, in cases where endoscopic methods failed. From September 1987 to
June 1989 80 patients (56 women, 24 men; mean age: 66 years) had been selected
for ESWL at the Charité-Hospital. Indications were: Impacted stones (30
patients), very large stones (22 patients), stones above bile duct strictures (28
patients). 79 patients have been treated by device "Lithostar" (Siemens) during
114 sessions in abdominal position under X-ray visualization. ESWL-treatment was 
impossible in one patient because of technical reasons. Per treatment session
1000 to 5000 shock waves with an energy of 19 kV, directed on a single or
distributed among several stones, have been applied. In 79 cases out of 114
treatments complete or partial fragmentation (69.3%) was attained. Stone
fragments were removed endoscopically in 56 patients and in 1 patient
percutaneously via biliary drainage. In 5 cases the fragments passed
spontaneously. On the total, in 72.2% of our patients stones clearance was
achieved. No severe side effects could be observed.CONCLUSION: ESWL represents a 
proper method increasing the effectiveness and lowering the risks of
non-operative therapy by bile duct stones.

PMID: 2091672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Grud Serdechnososudistaia Khir. 1990;(1):55-8.

[Experience in the surgical treatment of chronic suppurative lung disease in
children].

[Article in Russian]

Voronov SA, Ioffe LTs, Iakovleva VI.

Operations were performed on 750 children with cystic hypoplasia and
dysontogenetic and acquired bronchiectases. The operation volume: pulmonectomy,
lobectomy, combined resections, resection of pulmonary tissue with extirpation of
bronchi, extirpation of bronchi.COMPLICATIONS: atelectasis, pneumonia,
intrapleural hemorrhage were encountered in 87 (11.6%) children. Six (0.8%)
children died. Recurrent or residual bronchiectases were found in 27 children, 18
underwent a second operation. Recurrences were encountered mainly in children
with dysontogenetic bronchiectases.

PMID: 2192748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Int Urol Nephrol. 1990;22(3):285-93.

Water immersion induced alterations of plasma vasopressin levels and activity of 
the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in noninflammatory acute renal failure
and end-stage renal failure.

Kokot F(1), Grzeszczak W, Zukowska-Szczechowska E, Wiecek A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Silesian School of Medicine, Katowice, Poland.

Water immersion (WI) induced alterations of plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma
aldosterone (Aldo), vasopressin (AVP), sodium and potassium concentrations and
plasma volume (PV) were examined in 12 patients with noninflammatory acute renal 
failure (NARF) in the anuric/oliguric phase, in 20 patients with chronic renal
failure (CRF) and in 15 healthy subjects. In all examined groups a significant
increase of PV and decrease of PRA, plasma Aldo, AVP after WI were observed.
Significantly more marked decreases of PRA were observed in patients with NARF
than in those with CRF and in healthy subjects. In patients with NARF the
increase of PV was significantly greater than in CRF and in healthy subjects. In 
patients with NARF a significantly more marked decrease of plasma sodium
concentration was also noted after WI than in subjects with CRF and in normals.
Only in healthy subjects was a significant negative correlation noted between the
WI increase of PV and decrease of plasma AVP level. In healthy subjects,
significantly positive correlations were noted between WI induced decrease of PRA
and Aldo and between PRA and plasma AVP, respectively. Such correlations were
absent in uraemic patients.IN CONCLUSION: (1) patients with CRF and NARF show
similar, but quantitatively different responses of PRA, Aldo and AVP secretion to
WI as compared with normals; (2) patients with NARF and CRF are characterized by 
an inappropriate volumetric and osmotic regulation of AVP secretion; (3) in
uraemic patients the physiological relationship between the renin-angiotensin
system and AVP secretion seems to be dissociated.

PMID: 2210986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1990 Jan;15(1):78-82.

Myocardial salvage after failed coronary angioplasty.

Stark KS(1), Satler LF, Krucoff MW, Rackley CE, Kent KM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, D.C. 20007.

Patients undergoing coronary angioplasty have a 2% to 7% risk of requiring
emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery for impending infarction. These
patients provide a unique model of early reperfusion because the exact time of
compromise to blood flow and the composition of the reperfusion solution are
known. However, the amount of myocardium salvaged is unknown. Between December
1981 and September 1985, 859 patients underwent coronary angioplasty. Forty-two
patients had emergency surgery for objective evidence of impending infarction.
Five patients died. Thirty-six patients were contacted for follow-up; 21 (58%) of
36 had a radionuclide ventriculogram performed at a mean of 39 +/- 13 months
after surgery. These radionuclide studies were compared with the patient's
preangioplasty contrast ventriculogram. One patient had a myocardial infarction 3
years after surgery. Eleven (55%) of the remaining 20 patients had a normal
radionuclide ventriculogram at follow-up study (ejection fraction 65 +/- 9%).
Five (25%) of the 20 patients had a depressed ejection fraction (46 +/- 4%) with 
wall motion abnormalities, but these were unchanged from the preangioplasty
studies. Four patients (20%) had a significant decrease in ejection fraction over
baseline (37 +/- 10%) with new wall motion abnormalities.IN CONCLUSION: 1) there 
is an 80% chance that left ventricular function will be unchanged at 3 year
follow-up study in patients surviving emergency bypass grafting for failed
angioplasty; 2) these data suggest that early revascularization for impending
infarction in this setting is associated with a good late outcome; and 3) this
patient group offers a unique opportunity to study the effects of early
reperfusion in a human model.

PMID: 2295746  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1990 Jan-Feb;31(1):66-70.

Antiplatelet therapy and carotid plaque hemorrhage and its clinical implications.

AbuRahma AF(1), Boland JP, Robinson P, Decanio R.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Laboratory, Charleston Area Medical Center/ West Virginia University
Health Sciences Center.

One hundred and fifty-four carotid endarterectomy plaques were studied to
determine the correlation of multiple intraplaque hemorrhages to (1) carotid
symptoms, (2) the percentage of carotid stenosis, and (3) the preoperative
antiplatelet therapy. The plaques were evaluated histopathologically for the
presence of multiple hemorrhages. The data were analyzed using the chi 2 test.
Multiple hemorrhages were noted in 60.4% and single or not hemorrhage in 39.6% of
patients with hemispheric symptoms. In patients with nonhemispheric symptoms,
9.4% had multiple hemorrhages and 90.6% has single or no hemorrhages; 89.4%
plaques with multiple hemorrhages had stenosis greater than 75% in contrast to
37.5% in plaques with single or no hemorrhage; and 62.5% with single or no
hemorrhage had stenosis of less than 75% (p less than 0.001). In patients
receiving antiplatelet therapy, 80.1% of plaques with multiple hemorrhages were
removed, in contrast to 19.7% from patients not receiving antiplatelets (p less
than 0.001).IN CONCLUSION: Multiple intraplaque hemorrhages were seen more often 
in patients with hemispheric symptoms and are associated with more critical
carotid stenosis. Preoperative antiplatelet therapy increases the incidence of
repeated plaque hemorrhages; therefore, we question the validity of this therapy 
in certain patients with carotid disease.

PMID: 2324185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1990;12 Suppl 1:S48-51.

Effects of stress on gastric mucosal prostaglandin generation in intact,
adrenalectomized, and sham-operated rats.

Avunduk C(1), Eastwood GL, Polakowski N, Quimby GF.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Division, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester.

To study the effects of (a) cold restraint stress and (b) adrenalectomy in
association with cold restraint stress on gastric mucosal ulceration and
prostaglandin generation, we performed two experiments. In the first, 40 rats
were divided into four groups of 10 rats each: (a) unstressed and (b) stressed
for 0.5 h, (c) stressed for 2 h, and (d) stressed for 4 h. In the second
experiment, another 80 rats were divided into four groups of 20 rats each: (a)
adrenalectomy plus cold restraint stress for 2 h, (b) adrenalectomy plus no
stress, (c) sham operated plus 2 h of stress, and (d) sham operated plus no
stress. In both experiments we recorded an ulcer index and measured mucosal
generation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and prostaglandin I2 (6-keto-PGF1a).IN
CONCLUSION: (a) Cold restraint stress is associated with a time-dependent
decrease in gastric mucosal PGE2 generation, but no change in 6-keto-PGF1a
generation, and an increase in mucosal injury that is maximal by 2 h. (b)
Adrenalectomy augments the effects of stress on mucosal injury but has no effect 
on prostaglandin generation; thus, the ulcerogenic effect of adrenalectomy
appears to be independent of an effect on prostaglandin generation.

PMID: 2212549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):23-8.

The effect of a self-care minimal intervention for colds and flu on the use of
medical services.

Stergachis A(1), Newmann WE, Williams KJ, Schnell MM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Health Studies, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of mailed distribution of a brief self-care
pamphlet on upper respiratory infection (URI)-related-medical care utilization.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled clinical trial with randomization by physician
panel.
SETTING: Health maintenance organization.
PATIENTS: 20,127 patients assigned to the panels of 22 primary care physicians
randomly divided into an experimental group (n = 12,353) and a control group (n =
7,774), each consisting of 11 physician panels.
INTERVENTION: A mailed four-page self-care pamphlet for URI care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The medical records and survey data of a random
sample of 790 persons were studied during a baseline period and an intervention
period. URI visit rates decreased 14% more in the experimental group versus the
control group (p = 0.878). Appropriateness of URI visits during the intervention 
period in the experimental group (80%) was comparable to that in the control
group (76%). URI drug prescriptions during the intervention period for all 20,127
patients showed no significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple mailed self-care pamphlet has little effect on medical care
utilization for URI care.

PMID: 2405113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):34-41.

Teaching humanistic and psychosocial aspects of care: current practices and
attitudes.

Merkel WT(1), Margolis RB, Smith RC.

Author information: 
(1)St. Louis University School of Medicine, Missouri.

OBJECTIVE: To assess current practices and attitudes toward teaching humanistic
and psychosocial aspects of care in internal medicine residency programs.
DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS: Survey questionnaires were sent to residency directors
at all 434 internal medicine residency programs accredited in 1985-1986. Response
rate for two mailings was 71%.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: 78% OF RESIDENCY DIRECTORS and 70% of department
chairpersons had high or moderately high levels of commitment to teaching
humanistic/psychosocial aspects of care, but only 44% of responding programs
offered mandatory training, and only 18% offered elective training in these
areas. Obstacles to expanded teaching of the humanistic/psychosocial aspects
rated high or moderately high by residency directors included insufficient
curriculum time (51%), lack of trained faculty (44%), and pressures to reduce
both training costs (40%) and patient-care costs (37%).
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the training that does occur in the humanistic/psychosocial 
aspects of care probably happens informally via mentoring and role modeling.
Appeals to expand teaching in these areas raise questions regarding what to
include in medical training and the proper scope of internal medicine.
Sustainable change will depend on the politics of resource distribution and the
influence of general internal medicine and primary care on traditional training.

PMID: 2299427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):1-8.

Selective screening for high cholesterol in Australian general practice: the
Newcastle Cholesterol Prediction Study.

Kinlay S(1), Heller RF.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Newcastle, NSW, Australia.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):88-9.

OBJECTIVE: To test whether information simply obtained from adults can identify
those who are likely to have blood cholesterol levels higher than 6.5 mmol/L (250
mg/dl).
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Seven general practices in the lower Hunter Region of Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Of 693 men and women 25 to 65 years old attending the general
practices, 616 (89%) participated. Twelve pregnant women and four without blood
samples were excluded, leaving 600 subjects (208 men, 392 women).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-two percent of subjects had blood
cholesterol higher than 6.5 mmol/L (250 mg/dl). In women, high cholesterol was
mainly found among those over 40 years of age, but in men high cholesterol was
more evenly spread across the different age groups. Stepwise logistic regression 
identified age, history of hypertension, and a past history of heart attack as
significant independent predictors of high cholesterol. A simple model developed 
from these variables identified 81% of men and women (95% CI = 72-90%) with high 
cholesterol while testing only 49% of the population (95% CI = 44-54%). This
model was developed in a random subset of 331 of the 600 subjects, and when
applied to the remaining 269 subjects, it identified 77% of those with high
cholesterol (95% CI = 67-87%) after testing 48% (95% CI = 42-54%).
CONCLUSIONS: Selective screening using this simple model can identify adults who 
are likely to have high blood cholesterol and could complement case-finding or
provide an alternative high-risk strategy for communities that cannot afford to
screen all individuals.

PMID: 2299425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):9-15.

The cost-effectiveness of three thyroid function testing strategies for suspicion
of hypothyroidism in a primary care-setting.

Schectman JM(1), Pawlson LG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Care Sciences, George Washington University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20037.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the sensitivity and specificity of thyroxine (T4) and the
cost-effectiveness of three testing strategies in the diagnosis of hypothyroidism
in a primary care setting.
DESIGN: 1) A retrospective chart review to determine sensitivity and specificity 
of T4 in diagnosing hypothyroidism; a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing
ordering an initial T4 test alone, an initial thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)
test alone, and T4 and TSH tests together in diagnosing hypothyroidism; a
sensitivity analysis was performed on critical assumptions.
SETTING: Primary care adult practice of a health maintenance organization.
PATIENTS: Eight hundred sixteen consecutive patients suspected of having
hypothyroidism who had both T4 and TSH tests performed.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
RESULTS: The sensitivity of a T4 cut-off of 7 micrograms/dl (90.3 nmol/L) in
diagnosing primary hypothyroidism was 93% (95% confidence interval = 85-100%) and
the specificity was 68% (95% confidence interval = 65-71%). The
cost-effectiveness ratios of using an initial T4 or TSH test were about the same 
across a wide range of test characteristics and disease prevalence estimates. As 
the ratio of T4 to TSH test charges declines from 0.6 to 0.2, the marginal cost
of the TSH-first method increases from $3,500 to $18,000 for each additional
hypothyroid patient identified. Ordering both tests together was very costly
compared with the single test methods ($125,000 for each additional case
diagnosed) and remained so under a wide range of assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: When hypothyroidism is suspected, a TSH-first testing approach is
generally preferable due to its greater sensitivity and, under most assumptions, 
only small increment in average or marginal cost per case compared with a
T4-first method.

PMID: 2105384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 1990;19(6):737-44.

[Outcome of 470 pregnancies after artificial insemination with frozen sperm].

[Article in French]

Grefenstette I(1), Royere D, Barthélémy C, Tharanne MJ, Lansac J.

Author information: 
(1)CECOS Centre, CHU Bretonneau, Tours.

This article describes the outcome of the pregnancies conceived after AID with
frozen semen in the Tours CECOS Centre between January 1st 1988 and December 31st
1986. There were 487 (including multiple pregnancies). These have been compared
with a control group and with the national study conducted by INSERM in 1981. The
study of the literature allows comparisons. The rate of pregnancies not resulting
in a living child is not significantly different from the control series
(abortions 11.4%, ectopic pregnancies 1% and in utero fetal deaths 0.4%).
Pregnancies that continued: the rate of multiple pregnancies was higher (2.7%).
There were more cases of bleeding (6.8% compared with 2.4%), more hypertensions
(13.3% compared with 11.6%) and the same rate of premature labour (9.4%) as in
the control group. The Caesarean section rate (22% as against 6%) was higher. The
rate of forcepts delivery was lower (9.2% as against 12.8%). Concerning the
children we found more premature babies (15.8% versus 5.6%) but no difference in 
the sex ratio, their height-weight as against their term, their Apgar score,
morbidity or number or type of malformations (3.4%).IN CONCLUSION: the quality of
the children is about the same with the proviso that the group is too small to
conclude about the incidence of chromosomal abnormalities.

PMID: 2258594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Mal Vasc. 1990;15(1):47-54.

[Epidemiologic aspects of polyarterial pathology].

[Article in French]

Ebagosti A(1), Serradimigni A, Giraud M, Peytavy R, Gueunoun M, Jouve A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Dépistage et de Prévention des Maladies Cardio-vasculaires, Marseille.

With the considerable technical progress in vascular investigations made in the
last decade, evaluation of multifocal ischemic pathology (MIP) has become easier 
and allows better assessment of strategy for reperfusion. In vascular surgery,
50% of post-operative mortality and morbidity are related to coronary heart
disease (CHD). Epidemiologic data, not biased by specific recruitment of medical 
and surgical departments, are needed to assessing the real incidence of MIP.
Different clinical date have already shown the problem of MIP: the post-operative
cardiac mortality rate in vascular surgery has been evaluated at between 0.9% and
3.5% for abdominal aortic aneurysms and 0.3% and 3.2% for peripheral vascular
disease (PVD) according to recent statistics (2, 7, 10, 12, 21) (Table I). The
total cardiac mortality rate is between 1% and 2% for vascular surgery and is
0.2% for general surgery (8). Thus, though early post-operative over-risk in
vascular surgery is not very high, the long term-prognosis is far more impaired: 
25% to 55% of patients will die within 10 years after vascular surgery (4, 10,
13, 20). Hertzer, using systematic pre-operative coronary angiograms, found
significant coronary stenosis in 57% of patients referred for vascular surgery
(11).POPULATION AND METHODS: This study was performed in a representative sample 
taken from an ongoing prospective survey of 10,446 council employees in Marseille
(5,177 men (M.), 5,269 women (W.)). This sample of 1,883 M. and 1,212 W. (mean
age: 42.3 +/- 9 for M., 44.9 +/- 11 for W., range 25-65 years) was submitted to a
detailed questionnaire on personal and family history of CHD, risk factors and
symptoms of CHD (22), and to a physical examination including height, weight and 
blood pressure measurements. Every subject underwent an ECG recording and a
dietetic (5) and psychologic (1) interview, and a blood sample was taken for
plasma glucose, total cholesterol and lipoprotein assay. According to
epidemiologic data, the prevalence of MIP appears to be lower as compared to
clinical data. Undoubtedly, clinical data from surgical departments overestimate 
the true prevalence of MIP since patients referred for surgical therapy are
usually suffering from more advanced pathology. Epidemiology, mainly based on non
invasive data probably underestimates the prevalence of MIP but confirms the
highest prevalence of CHD as compared to prevalence of other localisations of
atherosclerosis and shows CHD as being the earliest localisation of vascular
ischemic lesions in most cases. When unifocal ischemic pathology (UIP) and MIP
are compared, risk factors are the same, although different proportions of
patients are concerned with some of them: in MIP, age is still the major risk
factor, whereas smoking in M. and overweight in W. seem to be more frequent than 
in UIP.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight cases (5%) of ischemic pathology were found in men and 47
cases (4%) in women, with 4.1% cases of unifocal ischemic pathology (UIP) in M.
and 3.3% in W...

PMID: 2313211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Mal Vasc. 1990;15(4):360-3.

[Hemorheology of venous insufficiency].

[Article in French]

Le Devehat C(1), Vimeux M, Khodabandelhou T.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Recherches d'Hémorhéologie clinique, Centre hospitalier de Nevers,
Pougues-les-Eaux.

The aim of this paper is to study the rheological properties of blood in patients
with venous insufficiency.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Measurements have been performed 
for 20 healthy control subjects and 20 patients presenting a venous insufficiency
with varicose veins of lower limbs. Blood has been withdrawn from the veins of
the lower limbs at rest and after 10 minutes of venous stasis (standing position 
and 100 mmHg tourniquet). The following measurements have been performed:
hematocrit by microcentrifugation; fibrinogen by nephelometry; plasma viscosity
by means of capillary viscosimeter (Myrenne KSPV4); deformability by Hanss
hemorheometer using nucleopore membranes and red blood cell aggregation and
disaggregation by means of a SEFAM erythro-aggregometer.
RESULTS: 1. Hematocrit was not significantly different between both groups of
subjects at rest. However, it increased significantly after venous stasis in
patients with varicose veins but it was not found to be increased in healthy
subjects. 2. Before and after stasis, the fibrinogen level was higher in patients
than in controls. After stasis, a significant increased was found only in the
patient group. 3. Plasma viscosity was found to be modified as the same manner as
the fibrinogen level. Besides, the fibrinogen level and plasma viscosity were
found to be correlated to each other. 4. Before and after stasis, red cells of
patients were significantly less deformable than those of controls. After stasis,
they were found to be more altered, in patients. But there were no difference in 
controls before and after stasis. 5. Aggregation and disaggregation parameters
have been found to be disturbed in patient group. Disturbances were more
pronounced after stasis.
CONCLUSION: Venous insufficiency can be characterized by alteration of
rheological parameters and the blood stasis in varicose veins may enhance these
alterations. These results indicate the importance of hemorheological
disturbances in the pathogenesis of this disease.

PMID: 2286818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Mal Vasc. 1990;15(4):339-43.

[Effects of coronary insufficiency on the early and late results in patients
surgically treated for aneurysm of the sub-renal abdominal aorta].

[Article in French]

Pelissier FT(1), Lehot JJ, George M, Villard J.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Cardiovasculaire de Lyon.

Between 1973 and 1988, 200 patients underwent repair of unruptured aortic
aneurysm located distal to the renal arteries. There were 181 men (90%) and the
mean age was 68.8 years. The most serious associated disease was arteriosclerotic
heart disease which was present in 102 patients (51%): 48 patients had angina
pectoris; 59 patients had previous myocardial infarct; 8 patients had ischemic
myocardiopathy. Associated cerebrovascular disease was found in 29 patients
(15%). Of these 200 patients, 36% had no symptoms relating to the aneurysm. The
aneurysm was associated with iliac aneurysm (19%), iliac occlusion (14%), distant
femoral occlusion (14%). In patients with history of coronary arteries disease
(102), 39 (18%) had a coronary angiography prior the elective resection, 18 (9%) 
coronary artery bypass surgery underwent elective myocardial revascularisation
prior to elective resection of their aneurysm. The treatment was by graft
replacement and exclusively by graft inclusion.RESULTS: Death occurred within 30 
days of treatment in 5 patients (2.5%). The first cause of early death was
myocardial infarct (3). Early peripheral vascular complication occurred within 30
days in these 200 patients and were thromboembolism in 12 patients and colic
ischemia in 8 patients. Of the 83 patients (1975-1983) who survived operation,
follow up information regarding survival was obtained in 79 patients. The overall
5 and 8 years survival rates in percentage in the series were 69% and 50%. The
survival rate was greatest in patients free of associated disease and worse in
patients with myocardial infarctus. Subsequently 24 vascular operations were
performed in these patients: 7 iliac aneurysms, 16 occlusive lesions and 2 false 
aneurysms.
DISCUSSION: Young (15) and associates reported an operative mortality rate of
6.3% for elective aneurysm resection but found that 20% of the patients with
pre-operative evidence of coronary artery disease had post-operative myocardial
infarct of which 58% were fatal. Hertzer and colleagues (6), using routine
coronary angiography prior to elective aortic reconstruction, have documented a
59% incidence of significant anatomic coronary artery disease. This incidence
increased to 95% in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm and suspected
coronary artery disease. Only one patient of the 68 patients with an abdominal
aortic aneurysm had normal coronary arteries in their series. Thus, considering
the omnious implications of coronary artery disease in patients with abdominal
aortic aneurysms, routine preoperative coronary angiography has been recommended.
For Brown and coll. (1), it would appear that the risk of prophylactic coronary
artery revascularisation may be greater than that for elective abdominal aortic
aneurysm resection alone in the older age group. For the authors, only patients
which instable angina pectoris or angina pectoris with a myocardial infarct had a
coronary angiography. The coronary artery bypass is recommended for left
maintrunk obstruction or diffuse multivessel coronary artery disease.

PMID: 2286814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Rehabil Res Dev Clin Suppl. 1990;(2):17-30.

Factors in functional assessment.

Behrman AL.

Author information: 
Woodrow Wilson Rehabilitation Center, Fisherville, VA.

The list of individualized needs of the wheelchair user as developed by the
medical and personal profile assessment can be categorized under the general
goals to be accomplished through the process of the wheelchair recommendation:
MEDICAL PROFILE:MEDICAL HISTORY: (1) Compensate for loss or absence of function. 
(2) Promote good health through prevention of problems. Physical Assessment: (1) 
Maintain proper seating and posture of the individual in the wheelchair. (2)
Correct or accommodate for deformity through positioning in the wheelchair.
PERSONAL PROFILE: Social History/User Goals: (1) Minimize mobility limitations as
they apply to educational, vocational, socialization, and recreational pursuits. 
(2) Minimize mobility limitations as they apply to communication. (3) Promote
positive self-image. Functional Abilities: (1) Optimize physical performance of
wheelchair user for: (a) wheelchair mobility, and (b) transfers. (2) Assist
family or caretaker in performance of: (a) dependent mobility, and (b) handling. 
(3) Provide means of dependent, manual mobility.
ENVIRONMENT: Minimize the impact of the environment on mobility in: (a) home,
vocational/educational, community and recreational settings, and (b)
transportation of the wheelchair.

PMID: 2142505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Trauma. 1990 Jan;30(1):75-8.

Hypertonic saline resuscitation of head injury: effects on cerebral water
content.

Wisner DH(1), Schuster L, Quinn C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Davis Medical Center, Sacramento
95817.

Ideal resuscitation would simultaneously replete intravascular volume and
minimize cerebral edema. We assessed the effects of hypertonic saline (HS) shock 
resuscitation on cerebral edema after head injury. Rats were subjected to
hemorrhagic shock (40 mm Hg for 1 hour) in the presence or absence of mechanical 
brain injury, followed by 1 hour of resuscitation with either hypertonic saline
(6.5%) or lactated Ringer's (LR). After resuscitation, animals were sacrificed
and brain water contents determined.RESULTS: Less HS than LR was needed for
resuscitation both in animals without brain injury (7 +/- 2 ml/kg vs. 97 +/- 16
ml/kg; p less than 0.0003) and with brain injury (10 +/- 1 ml/kg vs. 68 +/- 6
ml/kg; p less than 0.0001). Brain water content (ml H2O/gm dry wt) after HS
resuscitation was decreased compared to LR resuscitation in animals without brain
injury (3.36 +/- 0.12 vs. 3.74 +/- 0.08; p less than 0.025) and in the uninjured 
hemisphere of head-injured animals (3.29 +/- 0.11 vs. 3.78 +/- 0.09; p less than 
0.025). Brain water content was increased in injured brain in both resuscitation 
groups, but the increase was the same (HS 4.10 +/- 0.13; LR 4.25 +/- 0.17; p
greater than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: HS resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock decreases brain water content 
in uninjured but not injured brain. HS may be useful in resuscitation of combined
hemorrhagic shock and head injury.

PMID: 2296070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Jpn J Physiol. 1990;40(3):351-68.

Effects of dopamine on the transport of Na, H, and Ca in the bullfrog proximal
tubule.

Hagiwara N(1), Kubota T, Kubokawa M, Fujimoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

To study effects of dopamine (DA, 10(-6) M) on ion transport processes in
proximal tubular cells, we used Na(+)-, H(+)-, and Ca2(+)-selective
microelectrodes in doubly-perfused bullfrog kidneys. The peritubular membrane
potential difference (EM) and cytosolic Na+, Ca2+, and H+ activities ((Na)i,
(Ca)i, and pHi) were measured continuously after peritubular administration of DA
or dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (db-cAMP, 10(-4) M). Results obtained are as follows. 1) 
DA induced a decrease of (Na)i by 4.2 mM, but during the luminal perfusion of 0.5
mM Na+ solution, DA decreased (Na)i only by 1.4 mM. 2) DA produced a delayed fall
of (Ca)i by 8 nM. 3) DA produced hyperpolarization of EM by 5-7 mV. 4)
Peritubular perfusion with high K+ (35 mM) solution produced about 30 mV
depolarization of EM. DA added to high K+ perfusate induced 38 mV depolarization.
5) DA increased pHi by 0.07. 6) DA produced almost the same changes in (Na)i,
(Ca)i, EM, and pHi as those induced by db-cAMP. 7) Effects of DA on EM and (Na)i 
were inhibited by dopamine1 (DA1) antagonist.CONCLUSIONS: Effects of DA on ion
transport in the proximal tubular cells are mediated by the
adenylate-cyclase-cAMP system. The activation of this system induces 1)
suppression of Na+ entry step across the luminal membrane, 2) an increase of K+
permeability in the peritubular membrane, 3) cytosolic alkalinization with
vesicular accumulation of H+ by enhancing H+ pump, and 4) a decrease of (Ca)i
possibly by restricting Ca2+ entry across the luminal membrane and activating
Ca2+ pump in the peritubular membrane or subcellular organelles.

PMID: 2177119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Kardiol Pol. 1990;33(8):13-6.

The acute and chronic effects of cilazapril on cardiac function in hypertensive
patients.

Schneeweiss A(1), Marmor A.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Foundation, Geneva, Switzerland.

The effect of cilazapril, 2.5 to 5.0 mg on systolic and diastolic cardiac
function was studied by echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography, in 15
hypertensive patients. The measurements were made before and 3 hours after the
first dose, and after 10 weeks of treatment. Cilazapril lowered the elevated
blood pressure and did not affect the normal ejection fraction. An improvement in
indices of diastolic function was observed after the first dose. The normalized
peak filling rate significantly increased from 2.4 +/- 0.7 to 2.7 +/- 0.7 counts 
and time to peak filling rate was shortened from 169.4 +/- 31.0 to 151.6 +/- 40.1
msec. This improvement was sustained or even enhanced during chronic therapy.
Long-term treatment with cilazapril, caused regression of left ventricular
hypertrophy.IN CONCLUSION: cilazapril improves diastolic cardiac function in
hypertensive patients. The beneficial effect may be partially related to
regression of left ventricular hypertrophy.

PMID: 2150081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Kardiol Pol. 1990;33(11-2):5-10.

[Effect of coronary disease risk factors on the progression of coronary
arteriosclerosis].

[Article in Polish]

Sadowski Z(1), Pietrzyk E, Purzycki Z, Hoffman M, Sitkowski W, Bednarska M.

Author information: 
(1)Instytutu Kardiologii, Warszawie.

A group of 43 patients (pts) from a larger group 451 pts with coronary artery
disease (CAD) confirmed by coronary angiography were recatheterized because of
deterioration of symptoms. After the first angiography patients had no
indications to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or gave no consent to
surgery. The group comprised 3 women and 40 men aged 27 to 62 years (mean age 45 
+/- 8 years). The mean interval between coronarography was 35 +/- 22 months. Four
independent reviewers evaluated 15 segments of coronary arteries according to
American Heart Association. The coronary lesions were scored on the basis of
reduction in luminal diameter as follows: 0 point = 0-29%, 1 = 30-49%, 2 =
50-69%, 3 = 70-98%, 4 = 90-99%, 5 = 100% occlusion. The influence of the
following risk factors on the progression was evaluated: age, sex, hypertension, 
diabetes, lipid disturbances, smoking, hyperuricaemia, family history. The
patients were divided into 3 groups: group I--no or slight progression (0 to 4
points) in two successive coronary angiographies, group II--moderate progression 
(5 to 9 points) and group II--significant progression (10 points or more). The
number of patients in these groups was 14, 12 and 17 respectively. In such
isolated groups, the clinical events were compared: unstable angina, myocardial
infarctions, need for CABG, cardiac deaths within follow-up period. The ejection 
fraction of the left ventricle was also evaluated.STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: was
conducted by multiple regression model.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2096252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:957-9.

[Subtotal thyroid gland resection in immunogenic hyperthyroidism: results of a
9-year period].

[Article in German]

Littmann K(1), Krause U, Olbricht T, Benker G, Eigler FW.

Author information: 
(1)Evangelisches Diakonissenkrankenhaus, Stuttgart.

From 01. 01. 1980-31. 12. 1988 149 patients with Graves' disease were subtotally 
thyreoidectomized with little rests of 2-3 g on each side. The nervi recurrente
and the parathyreoids were exposed.RESULTS: There was only one permanent pulsy of
the recurrence nerve and no permanent hypoparathyreoidsm. 146 patients could be
observed: two had a recidiv and must be treated with radiojodine. 70% of our
patients were hypothyreotic, 20% euthyreotic. We think that the operation is the 
therapy of choice in young patients with Graves' disease.

PMID: 1983686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:499-501.

[After care and reoperation after primary intervention in chronic type A aortic
dissection].

[Article in German]

Karck M(1), Laas J, Heinemann M, Borst HG.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Thorax-, Herz- und Gefässchirurgie Medizinische Hochschule Hannover.

Between 4/78 und 9/89 44 patients (pts.) underwent primary repair of CADA. 3 pts.
died early postoperatively. 36 pts. were followed-up 3 months to 9.7 years (means
= 3.1 years) postoperatively with CT, DSA and echocardiography. 8 pts. underwent 
12 aortic reoperations, in 10 cases due to persistent or recurrent
aneurysms.CONCLUSIONS: In CADA radical replacement of the Ascending Aorta is
advisable to prevent recurrent aneurysms formation. Systematic follow-up
facilitates early recognition and repair of progressively chronic or new
downstream aortic pathology.

PMID: 1983599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:1325-31.

[Surgical thoracoscopy].

[Article in German]

Wittmoser R.

Author information: 
Institut für Neurovegetative Chirurgie und Endoskopie, Düsseldorf.

Thoracoscopic adhesiolysis since 1913 (Jacobaeus). Thoracoscopic targets:
Sympathetic system, vagus system, lymphatic system, lung.INDICATIONS: Arterial
circulation disturbances, posttraumatic reflexdystrophy ("Sudeck"), Hyperhidrosis
syndromes, erythrodermy syndromes; pain syndromes: causalgiform, splanchnicotomy 
for chronic pancreatitis. For peptic jejunal ulcer thoracoscopic
splanchnico-vagotomy. For bronchial asthma selective vagotomy of bronchial rami. 
Operative techniques. Hemostasis: low-frequency thermocoagulation, unipolar and
bipolar high-frequency coagulation, with thermostabilisation. Videoendoscopy with
minicameras. Electronic frame freezing for colour slides.

PMID: 1983538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:1041-5.

[Prevention of adhesions in abdominal surgery. A dose finding study with
streptokinase/streptodornase].

[Article in German]

Tuchmann A(1), Dinstl K, Depisch D, Wendt P, Blümel G.

Author information: 
(1)I. Chirurgische Abteilung KA Rudolfstiftung Wien.

Measurement of intraperitoneal fibrinolytic activity on 50 patients having
undergone abdominal surgery (four of them controls). Instillation of
streptokinase/streptodornase (Varidase) into the abdominal cavity. Determination 
of total protein, plasminogen, antiplasmin, alpha 2 Mx-plasmin-complex,
spontaneous fibrinolysis and fibrinolysis + activator at different points in time
p.op.RESULTS: Intraperitoneal fibrinolysis may be stimulated by local
substitution of a plasminogen activator (Varidase). Systemic effects are confined
to a high dose. No impaired wound healing nor increased propensity to
hemorrhaging occurred.

PMID: 1983482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1990;5(8):579-83.

Transplacental transport and pharmacological manipulations on renotropic activity
in post-nephrectomised rats.

Modai D(1), Averbukh Z, Rauch E, Berman S, Cohn M, Weissgarten J.

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology Division, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center affiliated to Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Zerifin, Israel.

Eighty 7-week-old female Charles-River rats were divided into the following
groups: SV, sham nephrectomised and remained virgin; NV, underwent right
nephrectomy and remained virgin; SP, sham nephrectomised and made pregnant a week
later; and NP, underwent right nephrectomy and made pregnant. Each group was
further subdivided into four equal groups given water, verapamil, captopril, and 
indomethacin respectively throughout the experimental period. Following delivery 
of the pregnancy groups all adult virgin animals and random groups of the
offspring were sacrificed, and renal fractional fresh and dry weight as well as
protein content were assessed.RESULTS: fractional kidney weights and protein
content (mg/kidney) were significantly increased in all nephrectomised adult
virgin animals compared to sham-operated counterparts. Similarly, in the
offspring of group NP the above parameters were significantly elevated compared
to the offspring of SP. However, there was no statistically significant
difference concerning these parameters between each of the subgroups within the
same groups and its respective control given water. We conclude: (a) in rats, as 
in mice, post-nephrectomy elevated renotropin crosses the placenta and triggers
extra growth of fetal kidneys, and (b) enhanced calcium influx via slow channels,
angiotensin II, or increased intrarenal prostaglandin formation do not seem to
play an important role in the exaggerated maternal or fetal kidney growth
following maternal unilateral nephrectomy.

PMID: 23275990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1990;5 Suppl 1:102-8.

The haemodynamic effects of correction of anaemia in haemodialysis patients using
recombinant human erythropoietin.

Abdulhadi MH(1), Fouad-Tarazi FM, Thomas T, Bravo EL, Paganini EP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hypertension, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the acute and long-term haemodynamic response to
recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) correction of chronic anaemia in
haemodialysis-supported patients.
DESIGN: Prospective analysis of randomly chosen patients undergoing the
multicentre phase III clinical recombinant erythropoietin trial.
SETTING: Chronic haemodialysis patients supported in one of two dialysis centres 
of a large urban tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: Thirteen of the 59 patients who met the criterion for participation in 
the multicentre clinical phase III trial of recombinant erythropoietin were
randomly chosen. Mean age (42.6 years), and time on dialysis (3.4 years) was
representative of the study population. Ten patients were receiving
antihypertensive therapy, which remained unchanged throughout the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Haemodynamic testing was done in a fasting state, in the supine
position, utilising radionuclide angiocardiography. Plasma volume was determined 
by 125I-labelled serum albumin. Echocardiographic and hormonal evaluations were
also performed at each haemodynamic evaluation. All testing was done immediately 
prior to first dose of drug, upon reaching target haematocrit, and at 6 months
and 1 year of continued non-anaemia.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean arterial pressure did not seem to change at
any of the study periods, while total peripheral resistance did drop at target
(34 +/- 2.5 vs 27.2 +/- 3.2 microns2, P = 0.05). Cardiac output (5.6 +/- 0.5 vs
7.6 +/- 0.8 l/min, P = 0.005) and stroke volume (77 +/- 9.6 vs 116 +/- 15.4 ml, P
= 0.005) also rose at this same period but returned to baseline during later
periods. Ejection fraction increased over baseline at both target and 1 year
study points (50 +/- 2.7 vs 57.7 +/- 3 vs 63 +/- 4.3, P = 0.05) while the
haematocrit was increased at target (21.8 +/- 0.9 vs 35.6 +/- 1.0, P less than
0.0005), and maintained at this new level throughout the study. Total blood
volume (118 +/- 6.7 vs 100.4 +/- 8.1 ml/cm, P less than 0.05) and plasma volume
(150 +/- 8.2 vs 108.5 +/- 9.4 ml/cm, P less than 0.001) decreased at 1 year.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant human erythropoietin is effective in correcting the
anaemia of chronic renal failure. Any haemodynamic changes which may be induced
seem to occur early in the course of therapy, are different from those changes
induced by blood transfusions, and tend to return to baseline with continued
treatment.

PMID: 2129437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nephrologie. 1990;11(2):83-90.

[Prevalence of histological types of bone disease in a hemodialysis center
limiting the oral intake of aluminum hydroxide].

[Article in French]

Belbrik S(1), Marie A, Boudailliez B, Morinière P, Sébert JL, Solal MC, Westeel
PF, Roche D, Fournier A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Médecine Interne et Réanimation, CHU Amiens.

To assess the prevalence of histologic bone disease in our center where Al(OH)3
intake is restricted, we reviewed 42 bone biopsies performed between 1975 and
1985 in patients dialyzed more than 29 months. Bone biopsies were performed
systematically (2/3 of the cases) or because of a mild hypercalcemia (1/3 of the 
cases). Seventeen of these patients had been dialyzed before 1978 with softened
water moderately contaminated by aluminum. Fifteen had always been dialyzed with 
reverse osmosis treated water and 10 had been exclusively treated by
hemofiltration. The prevalence of osteitis fibrosa was 76%, that of osteomalacia 
null and that of adynamic bone disease 24% (but only 9.5% with positive Aluminon 
staining). When the 17 patients dialyzed with aluminum contaminated water before 
1978 were excluded, only one patient among 25 had an aluminum adynamic bone
disease (4%). This low prevalence can probably be explained by the restricted
intake of Al(OH)3 thanks to the systematic administration of Ca CO3 and in a few 
cases of Mg (OH). The adynamic bone disease group has lower serum concentration
of PTH and shorter duration on dialysis whereas the serum levels of calcium,
phosphorus, magnesium and aluminum and daily dose of Ca CO3, Mg (OH)2 and Al(OH)3
do not differ. The frequency of the positivity of aluminum staining is not
statistically different in the 2 groups. In 4 cases, adynamic bone disease
without aluminum or iron intoxications is found, associated with a relative
hypoparathyroidism. It is not explained by previous parathyroidectomy, diabetes
or steroid therapy.CONCLUSIONS: 1) Restriction of aluminum intake and dialysis
with reverse osmosis treated water lead to a low prevalence of aluminum bone
disease. 2) A new bone disease in uremia is described: the idiopathic adynamic
bone disease associated with a relative hypoparathyroidism.

PMID: 2392208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. No Shinkei Geka. 1990 Jan;18(1):39-45.

[Treatment of vegetative status with dorsum column stimulation].

[Article in Japanese]

Yokoyama T(1), Kamei Y, Shoda M, Abe M, Onouchi K, Kasama A, Inoue T, Kanno T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fujita-Gakuen Health University, School of Medicine.

We have already reported that DCS (Dorsum Column Stimulation) alleviates the
clinical symptoms of patients in vegetative status. Since then, we have
accumulated information about 23 cases that have been treated by DCS therapy. In 
this paper, we describe the clinical outcome and compare cases where the
treatment was effective with those where it was non-effective to evaluate the
indications for further use of this treatment.RESULTS: 1) Eight of these cases
showed good clinical improvement. 2) Most of the cases where the treatment was
effective were young. Starting neurostimulation early brought about better
clinical effects. 3) The clinical effects appeared 1-12 months after the start of
the neurostimulation. 4) CT findings in the cases which had been treated
effectively showed no marked cerebral atrophy, and no bilateral large diffuse
low-density areas not involving the thalamus. Neither did they show any definite 
and large low-density areas in the brainstem. In conclusion, when the dorsum
column was stimulated to treat vegetative status in which CT disclosed none of
the abnormal findings described above, it increased r-CBF, enhanced the
metabolism of catecholamine, and brought clinical improvement.

PMID: 2304608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Padiatr Padol. 1990;25(2):85-97.

[Criteria for the assessment of data and measures in obesity in children].

[Article in German]

Hövels O(1), Kalker U, Kolbe-Saborowski H.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum der Kinderheilkunde, Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt am
Main.

DEFINITION: Obese children have more than 20% overweight in relation to height.
DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES: Estimation of serum concentrations of triglycerides,
total-, HDL- and LDL-cholesterol, and of blood pressure; oral glucose tolerance
testing in patients with more than 40% overweight.
INDICATION FOR THERAPY: More than 20% overweight in relation to height.
EVALUATION OF THERAPEUTIC RESULTS: Main goal: less than 20% overweight; if not
possible, stabilisation of overweight between 20 and 30%; if not possible in
cases of severe obesity (more than 60% overweight): Either reduction of
overweight more than 40% (in patients with 80% overweight or more) or reduction
of overweight more than 20 and less than 40% (in patients with 60-70% overweight)
and stabilisation of overweight within these ranges respectively. Therapeutic
results should be reported in relation to the end of therapy as short term
results: at most 2 years, as medium term results: at least 3 years, and as long
term results: after growth stop.

PMID: 2192343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Pediatr Nurs. 1990 Jan-Feb;16(1):101-4.

Differences in maternal perception of the newborn among adolescents.

Porter LS, Sobong LC.

PURPOSE: To test the feasibility and efficacy of a Parenting Enhancement Program 
(PEP) on adolescent mothers' perceptions of the neonate and to ascertain the
extent to which PEP reinforces the effects of maternal age or self-esteem on
their perceptions.
METHODOLOGY: Ninety-two pregnant adolescents were placed into one of two groups; 
one group participated in a PEP and the other group did not. A Background
Information Questionnaire, Self-Esteem Scale (SES), and Neonatal Perception
Inventory (NPI) were used to collect data from all the subjects at five intervals
beginning during pregnancy and ending at 3 months postpartum.
RESULTS: A t-test revealed significant differences between the two groups at 1
month postpartum on the NPI. The PEP group had a significant gain on the NPI from
the second day postpartum to 1 month postpartum. The PEP subjects showed a
significant gain on the SES over time. A significant relationship was found
between SES and NPI at 1 month postpartum.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings lend support for the use of the PEP. Self-esteem served
to reinforce the effects of the PEP, but age did not make a difference.

PMID: 2359622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Perit Dial Int. 1990;10(2):161-4.

Tidal peritoneal dialysis with racemic or L-lactate solutions.

Nolph KD(1), Twardowski ZJ, Khanna R, Prowant BF, Ponferrada LP, Schmidt LM,
Moore HL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Missouri Health Sciences Center, Columbia
65212.

To see if rapid lactate absorption on tidal peritoneal dialysis (TPD) would
overwhelm D-lactate metabolism using racemic lactate and/or L-lactate metabolism 
using all L-lactate, five patients underwent 8-h TPD treatments with racemic
lactate solution one day and with L-lactate another. Lactate concentrations
(total) were 40 mmole/L, flow rates 27.3 L/8 h, tidal and reservoir volumes each 
1.5L, tidal cycles 24-26 min, and net ultrafiltration per tidal cycle 70 to 99
mL.RESULTS: Mean absorptions of D and L-lactate were 24.2 and 25.1%,
respectively, compared to glucose at 14.6%. Urea clearances averaged 21.4 mL/min.
Mean blood D-lactates at baseline were 0.6 +/- 0.5 SD mmole/L and after 8 h of
TPD were 0.6 +/- 0.4 and 0.7 +/- 0.3 using L-lactate and racemic solutions,
respectively; similar values for L-lactate were 1.2 +/- 0.3 at baseline and 1.2
+/- 0.3 and 1.2 +/- 0.5 after 8 h with L-lactate and racemic solutions. delta
blood pH values were + 0.02 +/- 0.01 and + 0.04 +/- 0.03, while delta bicarbonate
values were + 1.7 +/- 0.9 and + 0.7 +/- 1.0 for the all L and racemic studies,
respectively. The total mmoles of L-lactate absorbed per 8 h of TPD with all L
solution (greater than 300 mmoles) are greater than ever reported for peritoneal 
dialysis, but did not increase blood lactate levels. It would seem that either
type of solution is suitable for TPD. Absorptions and metabolic rates are similar
for L-Lactate and D-Lactate.

PMID: 2085601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Proc Chin Acad Med Sci Peking Union Med Coll. 1990;5(4):226-7.

Preliminary observation of the brain as a site for parathyroid gland
allotransplantation in rats.

He X(1), Yao C, Zhu Y.

Author information: 
(1)PUMC Hospital, CAMS, Beijing.

We divided the experimental animals into two groups.CONTROL GROUP: ACI rat PTG
was transplanted into the renal subcapsulae of F344 rats. Experimental group: ACI
rat PTG was transplanted into the ventriculus lateralis of F344 rats. The results
show that a statistically significant difference in mean allograft survival times
existed between the two groups.

PMID: 2293234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Przegl Lek. 1990;47(8):584-7.

[Usefulness of determining the blood protein synthesis index in the evaluation of
liver damage].

[Article in Polish]

Jonderko G(1), Bednarczyk-Kałuzny M, Jurecka-Tuleja B.

Author information: 
(1)IV Katedry i Kliniki Chorób Wewnetrznych Sl. AM.

The purpose of report was the presentation of the variability range of the plasma
protein synthesis index (PSI) in dependence on the chronic character of the liver
parenchyma lesion in man or the extent of parallel indices of PSI with other
biochemical parameters usually determined in the diagnostics of the liver
parenchyma diseases. The studies have been performed in 20 patients with viral
hepatitis (VH ), 20 patients with balanced liver cirrhosis (BLC), 20 patients
with unbalanced liver cirrhosis and in 43 healthy volunteers. The PSI, total
protein, albumin, gamma-globulin, bilirubin, prothrombin index and the alanine
aminotransferase and the choline esterase activity has been determined. The most 
important lowering of the PSI values has been observed in patients with BLC. In
those with VH the prolonged depression of the protein synthesis may indicate the 
chronic character of the inflammatory process. The extent of correlation of PSI
with other parameters was statistically not significant.CONCLUSIONS: 1. PSI is a 
result of the liver lesion and its values are lowest in patients with MWN. 2. The
WSB value does not depend on the age of subjects studied. 3. The diagnostic
usefulness of WSB for evaluation of the liver parenchyma lesion is greater than
of the albumin, choline esterase or prothrombin index determination. 4. The WSB
determination is of value in the complex evaluation of the liver function in
patients with lesions of that organ.

PMID: 2284431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(4):335-44.

Head lice in Israeli children: parents' answers to an epidemiological
questionnaire.

Mumcuoglu KY(1), Miller J, Gofin R, Adler B, Ben-Ishai F, Almog R, Kafka D, Klaus
S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Parasitology, Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem,
Israel.

BACKGROUND: The aim was to determine the influence of the socioeconomic status of
the family and the hygienic practices in the home on the prevalence of head lice 
infestation in children.
METHODS: The study was carried out by analyzing the answers to a standardized
epidemiological questionnaire given to parents of school children aged 4-17 in
Bet Shemesh, a medium-sized urban town 25 km from Jerusalem.
RESULTS: Of 3,000 questionnaires distributed, 958 (31.9%) were completed and
returned. The majority of the children (72.4%) had been previously infested with 
lice. Half of them had other family members, mainly brothers and sisters, who had
been infested in the past with lice. In 97.5% of the families the mother was
responsible for examining the children for lice, and for carrying out treatment
when infestation was present. An association was found between presence of lice
infestation and mother's education, age of child, and frequency of shampooing,
combing, and examination for lice. There was no association between infestation
rates and mother's country of origin, crowding in the home, and the sharing of
combs, brushes, hats, scarves, towels, and clothes.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that the incidence of lice infestation depends on 
the hygienic practices in the home rather than on the socioeconomic status of the
family or sharing of personal articles among family members.

PMID: 2152156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(4):329-33.

Patterns of drug consumption among ischemic heart disease patients in Israel:
subcultural differences.

Carmel S(1), Koren I, Reuben I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of the Sociology of Health, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer
Sheva, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Sociological studies have shown that the process of
translating discomfort to physical symptoms and deciding what symptoms require
medical treatment is often the result of cultural definitions. Based on Israeli
studies in this area, we hypothesized that Eastern-origin Israelis would consume 
more self-regulated prescription drugs than Western-origin patients. One hundred 
ischemic heart disease patients were interviewed while waiting for the doctor in 
hospital out-patient clinics.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Statistically significant differences were found between
the two groups in patterns of consumption of sublingual nitrates. These findings 
raise the question whether such differences pertain also to the use of other
kinds of drugs. In view of the important practical implications of this issue for
clinical practice and for calculations of cost, further research on culture-based
differences in drug consumption is suggested.

PMID: 2152155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(4):319-27.

Development of antimicrobial drug resistance among Shigellas isolated at an
Israeli hospital from 1977 through 1990.

Smollan G(1), Block C.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Microbiology Laboratory, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer,
Israel.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of diarrhea due to Shigella sp. has become complicated in
recent years by drug resistance. The emergence of resistance to antibiotics
important in the treatment of shigellosis was studied among Shigella sp. isolated
at the Sheba Medical Center between 1977 and 1990.
METHOD: A retrospective study of resistance patterns of Shigella sp. using the
Kirby-Bauer disc diffusion test.
RESULTS: In the early 1980s S. sonnei replaced S. flexneri as the most frequent
isolate. Ampicillin resistance rose steadily, peaking at 70% for S. sonnei in
1990 and 50% for S. flexneri in 1987 and 1990. Resistance to tetracycline roughly
paralleled this. By 1990, 68% of S. sonnei and 75% of S. flexneri were
insensitive. Cotrimoxazole resistance developed rapidly from 1981. By 1990, 88%
of strains of S. sonnei had become resistant, compared to 63% of S. flexneri. S. 
boydii and S. dysenteriae were encountered less frequently, but showed important 
rates of resistance. Chloramphenicol remained active against almost all strains
of S. sonnei, while resistance in S. flexneri reached about 30% in the late
1980s. Relatively few isolates were resistant to all four drugs. Only 20/841
(2.4%) of strains tested from 1984 to 1990 were resistant to nalidixic acid.
CONCLUSION: The data presented document the emergence of antibiotic resistance as
a serious public health problem among strains of Shigella isolated at a large
medical center in Israel.

PMID: 2152154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(4):307-17.

Epidemiology of Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis in Israel, 1981-90.

Slater PE(1), Roitman M, Costin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: In the Western world, Haemophilus influenzae type b is an
important cause of morbidity and long-term disability in children. The
availability of vaccines capable of preventing H. influenzae type b disease in
very young infants stimulated this longitudinal observational review of the
epidemiology of H. influenzae type b meningitis in Israel, based on cases
reported to the Ministry of Health in the decade 1981-90.
RESULTS: In the last decade, H. influenzae type b accounted for 884 cases of
meningitis, making it the main cause of bacterial meningitis in children. Almost 
all cases were in children under the age of 5 years, the great majority under 18 
months. Age-standardized incidence rates were the same in Jews and in non-Jews,
and in both sectors incidence was slightly higher in males than in females. The
case fatality rate was 3.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: The new Haemophilus b conjugate vaccines are reported to be safe,
effective at an early age, and compatible with current vaccination schedules.
Their availability means that control of invasive disease caused by this organism
is within reach. Use of the vaccines in infants should be encouraged and their
effect on morbidity patterns should be closely monitored.

PMID: 2152153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(3):261-6.

Developing epidemiological markers for Shigella sonnei: a proposed phage-typing
scheme.

Sechter I(1), Cohen D.

Author information: 
(1)Central Laboratories, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Shigella sonnei isolates are homogeneous when examined by serological
methods. Since this micro-organism is one of the common isolates in outbreaks of 
shigellosis, a strong necessity was felt to find a sub-division of it, useful in 
epidemiological studies.
METHODS: 103 phages previously found to be active on various groups of
Enterobacteriaceae were tested on 129 strains of S. sonnei. Among 47 phages
active on S. sonnei, eight were selected as giving the best differentiation
between the isolates and clear-cut reactions.
RESULTS: Twelve main phage-types were identified. Among the strains of phage-type
1, some showed full sensitivity to all the eight phages; others showed minor
differences in the sensitivity to one or some of them. The significance of these 
minor phage-types has to be further analyzed.
CONCLUSIONS: A tentative phage-typing scheme appropriate for S. sonnei has been
proposed. This method provides a potentially useful tool for epidemiological
study of this organism. Further validation of the scheme using local isolates is 
necessary.

PMID: 2135810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(3):251-9.

Characteristics of alcohol abusers among incidental primary health clinic
attenders in an Israeli development town.

Raphael J(1), Fraser D, Boehm R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University 
of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The belief that alcoholism is rare among Jews appears to be tenable
no longer. High rates of alcohol abuse are being reported in subgroups of the
population and in socially disadvantageously placed persons. The main objective
of this study was to search for etiologic clues for alcohol abuse in different
ethnic groups in a development town in southern Israel.
METHODS: A structured questionnaire was answered by 152 randomly selected
incidental attenders at a primary health care clinic. Alcohol abuse was
determined using the CAGE questionnaire.
RESULTS: The rate of present-time alcohol abuse was 17% and 20% among male Indian
and non-Indian clinic attenders, respectively, while life-time abuse was 37% and 
25%, respectively. These findings were considerably higher than the reported
national rates of 2-3%. Differences were found between alcohol abusers in the
various ethnic groups. Non-Indian life-time abusers were characterized by more
frequent use of medical services, more reported physical and mental symptoms,
more use of psychotropic drugs, and higher rates of unemployment.
CONCLUSIONS: These differences suggest that the non-Indians may include
symptomatic drinkers, while the Indians, we propose, may be alcohol abusers for
cultural reasons. The extent of the alcohol abuse problem detected in this survey
indicates that a major public health issue may exist in development town
populations.

PMID: 2135809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(2):129-37.

Q fever in Israel.

Yarrow A(1), Slater PE, Costin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Q fever was first described over fifty years ago. While in a
proportion of cases there is a clear etiologic link to farm animals, their
products, and fomites, in the majority of cases no such association is apparent, 
and the mode of infection is a mystery.
METHODS: In this paper, we examine the reported incidence of Q fever in Israel
since it was made notifiable in 1951, and in particular for the period 1981-1985,
when special surveillance at national reference laboratories was carried out.
RESULTS: Age and sex as well as urban-rural distributions suggest the influence
of occupation, but in the large majority of cases mode of transmission was
unknown.
CONCLUSIONS: If our knowledge concerning the etiology of Q fever in Israel, and
the means of preventing it, is to be advanced, each case should be investigated
assiduously to uncover risk factors for exposure, and sero-epidemiologic studies 
carried out to identify geographic or occupational groups differentially
infected.

PMID: 2134719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Public Health Rev. 1990-1991;18(1):88-93.

Mumps incidence in Israel--impact of MMR vaccine.

Slater PE(1), Roitman M, Costin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine replaced measles vaccine in the
routine childhood vaccination schedule in Israel in December 1988, primarily to
eliminate congenital rubella syndrome. In this observational study, we report on 
changes in mumps incidence in Israel from the time of the introduction of MMR
vaccine until the end of 1991.
METHODS: The report is based upon passive surveillance of mumps incidence, which 
has been notifiable in Israel since 1977.
RESULTS: In the three years since the introduction of MMR vaccine, reported mumps
incidence has fallen to less than 10% of the pre-vaccine period.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this report is based on a relatively short period of
observation, it can be tentatively concluded that MMR has led to a reduction in
mumps incidence in Israel. It would be imprudent, however, to predict that mumps 
outbreaks will not occur in the future, and further observation of morbidity data
will be needed to determine the magnitude and durability of the observed trend.

PMID: 2132885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1990;43 Suppl 2:40-7.

[Comparison between the unipolar and bipolar mode for estimation and detection of
auricular and ventricular duration in acute and chronic cardiac pacing].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodrigo Trallero G(1), Suárez Alzamora J, Valle Montañés JV, Yuste Serrano I,
Sánchez Val A, Pacheco Arancibia G, Calderero Abad JL, Ferreira Montero I.

Author information: 
(1)Servicios de Cardiología, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Zaragoza.

To add data on controversy between the advantages and inconveniences of using
either unipolar or bipolar modes for permanent cardiac pacing, we have studied 15
patients. In all of them a CPI Delta-925 (DDD) pulse generator was implanted. Non
invasive pacing threshold values in volts were measured at 0.05, 0.08 and 0.1 ms 
for each chamber programmed either to unipolar or bipolar mode, at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 14, 21, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180 and 365 days after the implant. Sensing
thresholds were measured at the same time. For any pulse width the mean pacing
thresholds in atrium and ventricle increase uniformly, reaching its maximum
values between the days 8 and 14 after the implant and decreases to a stable
value between 90 and 120 days after the implant, without statistically
significant differences for both: unipolar and bipolar modes. Pacing thresholds
(V +/- SD) for 0.05 ms in the day 365th were in atrium: unipolar 2.85 +/- 0.79,
bipolar 3.35 +/- 0.92 (p = 0.56) and ventricle: unipolar 3.92 +/- 1.01, bipolar
4.36 +/- 1.35 (p = 0.58). Sensing thresholds in atrium and ventricle decreases
from the 1st day after the implant with the minimum mean value the day 8th,
increasing eventually. No statistically significant differences were found
between sensing unipolar/bipolar mode at each chamber. Sensing thresholds (mV +/-
SD) in the 365th day were in atrium: unipolar 4.40 +/- 2.07, bipolar 4.10 +/-
2.10 (p = 0.82) and ventricle: unipolar 11.20 +/- 3.63, bipolar 10.10 +/- 5.13 (p
= 0.71).CONCLUSIONS: for every single patient: 1) There are not statistically
significant differences in the evolution of unipolar and bipolar pacing
thresholds both in atrium and ventricle, regarding rate and time of increase,
maximum value, rate of decrease and stable chronic values. 2) There are neither
statistically significant differences regarding unipolar and bipolar sensing in
atrium and ventricle respect to rate of decrease, time and value of the minimum
and stable chronic values.

PMID: 2236797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 1990 Jan-Mar;55(1):7-12.

[Therapeutic paracentesis with albumin infusion for the treatment of tension
ascites in cirrhotic patients. Preliminary report].

[Article in Spanish]

García Compean D(1), Pérez Martínez C, Guerra JM, Barragán RF.

Author information: 
(1)Depto. de Medicina Interna. Hospital Universitario Dr. José E. González,
Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Monterrey, N.L. México.

It has been recently reported that repeated large volume paracentesis (LVP) is a 
safe and efficacious procedure to treat cirrhotics with tense ascitis. In this
paper we present the results of our experience with the use of this method. We
studied 10 cirrhotics with tense ascites. The criteria for exclusion are
described in the text. During LVP, iv albumin infusion was given (25 g each tap).
Patients were followed during 3-4 months after discharge from the
hospital.RESULTS: Eighteen LVP were made in 10 patients. The mean age was 56
years (range 37-77). Six had peripheral edema. The mean volume of ascitic removed
was 6.75 L (range 5-12) per tap. No clinic or hemodynamic complications were
observed. With exception of serum cholesterol, which showed a decrease after LVP,
laboratory tests did not show any significant modification. Two patients died 3
and 6 weeks after LVP due to hepatic failure and digestive hemorrhage. The
procedure was well tolerated. Two were readmitted to the hospital after three
months because of ascites. We conclude that LVP plus 25 g of i.v. albumin
infusion is a safe and efficacious method to treat cirrhotic tense ascites. After
three months no renal function impairment was observed. LVP decrease serum
cholesterol.

PMID: 2291066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 1990 Jan-Mar;55(1):17-24.

[A 10-year prolective study on cancer of the digestive system].

[Article in Spanish]

Villalobos JJ(1), Vargas F, Villareal HA, Olivera MA, Anzures ME, Rodríguez L,
Boom R, Olaeta R, Pérez Huacuja R, Santoyo R, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición, Salvador
Zubirán, México, D.F.

OBJECTIVE: A ten year prolective and multicentre study of cancer of the Digestive
Tract aims to evaluate the variations on frequency and to identify risk factors.
METHODS: Ten hospitals are participating five in Mexico City and five in other
states. Data were obtained through the hospitals files and specially designed
questionnaires, the latter mainly diet and habits oriented.
RESULTS: Through this ten years in the 4,715 cases studied we can appreciate a
decreasing tendency of the carcinoma of the stomach (GC) that has been the most
frequent until 1984 in the general group General Hospital and Instituto Nacional 
de la Nutrición. Since then and up to date, first place in frequency in shared
between the stomach and colorectal carcinoma (CRC). CRC has been increasing even 
in the General Hospital in which GC was very high. Eighth years ago we found that
people in those hospitals in which GC was high the diet was poor in proteins, fat
A and C vitamin. People in those hospitals with high frequency of CRC had diet
high in protein, fat and low in fiber. A new study on diet is ongoing.
Gallbladder and biliary tract carcinoma has been increasing in all the hospitals.
A high O blood group was found in the Juarez Hospital in which gallbladder
carcinoma was the highest. O group is highest in the indian people. Cancer of the
gallbladder is very high in Pimas and Navajos indians. A plan to study litogenic 
index and culture of salmonella is going to be practiced in bile from normal and 
gallbladder carcinoma. Concerning habits, tobacco and alcohol consumption are
most frequent in cancer of the esophagus and pancreas. Also coffee consumption is
high in the latter.
CONCLUSIONS: Along this 10-year study, the frequency of gastric cancer has been
decreasing. Instead, the frequencies of colo rectal and biliary tract cancers
have been increasing. Variations in frequencies correlated with the composition
of the diet, fiber consumption habits and racial characteristics of the different
groups.

PMID: 2291062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Rev Mal Respir. 1990;7(4):327-30.

[Thoracic sympathectomy by thoracoscopy. Apropos of 15 cases].

[Article in French]

Guérin JC(1), Demolombe S, Brudon JR.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital de la Croix-Rousse, Lyon.

Thoracic sympathectomy is achieved using the trans-axillary route during the
course of a thoracotomy. The indications are Raynaud's phenomenon, digital
arteriopathy, and hyperhidrosis. Alongside the surgical approach in theory it is 
possible to use a thoracoscopic approach for a thoracic sympathectomy, to achieve
a physico-chemical destruction, we have studied this possibility using this
technique.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thoracoscopy is achieved under local anaesthetic 
after creating a pneumothorax. The approach is through the 2nd intercostal space 
in the mid-clavicular line. Anaesthesia of the 2nd sympathetic ganglion is
achieved, the ganglion is destroyed by injection of 8 c.c's of Phenol. 15
patients were treated (15 to 7). The presented with palmar hyperhidrosis (7),
digital arteriopathy (6) or Raynaud's syndrome (2).
RESULTS: The first 5 patients were failures which led to a more precise
technique. Overall we observed 8 favourable results. If we exclude the first 5
cases we achieved 8 favourable results and 2 failures. The approach to the 2nd
sympathetic ganglion using the thoracoscope is not always possible: the vision
may be obscured. When it is possible phenolization may yield excellent results
comparable to those of surgical sympathectomy.
CONCLUSION: Palmar hyperhidrosis for which we have obtained the best results
seems to us to be an extra indication of this technique which enables a cure at
the price of a relatively simple procedure and a brief period of hospital stay.

PMID: 2399352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 1990 Jan-Mar;34(1):51-4.

[Intensive chemotherapy with 1-3 drugs and support with autologous myelopoietic
cells extracted from the peripheral blood: the preliminary results].

[Article in Spanish]

Sureda M(1), Martín Algarra S, Henríquez I, Rebollo J, Vieitez J, Aristu J.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Oncología, Clínica Universitaria de Navarra, Pamplona.

Fourteen patients with different solid tumors have been treated with high-dose
combination chemotherapy followed by autologous PBSC support. A total of 15
procedures have been done. 4,5-7 x 10(10) mononuclear cells were obtained through
1-4 leukapheresis using a CS-3.000 continuous flow blood cell separator. Cells
were maintained in standard culture conditions for 3-5 days prior to infusion.
Chemotherapy consisted in the administration of 1-3 agents: CPA 80 mg/kg; VP-16, 
800 mg/m2; BCNU 700-800 mg/m2, CBDCA 1.000 mg/m2. APBSC were infused 48 hours
after the last chemotherapy was given. Patients were maintained in single-bed
rooms with standard prophylactic antibiotics, including gentamycin, piperacillin,
vancomycin and amphotericin B during the period of aplasia. Currently 5
procedures are available for response and all patients are evaluable for
toxicity. Responses have been: 2 complete responses and 3 partial response. All
patients entered in aplasia, with 12 infections (73%), 8 bleeding (53%), 4
diarrhea (27%), 2 stomatitis (13%) and 3 renal failure (16%).CONCLUSIONS: 1. Bone
marrow recovery after high dose chemotherapy can be shortened with APBSC support.
2. APBSC can be safely maintained using standard culture techniques, thus
avoiding the freezing procedure.

PMID: 1982905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Rev Odontostomatol (Paris). 1990 Jan-Feb;19(1):61-7.

[Adhesion of artificial teeth to polymethacrylate resins].

[Article in French]

Steas A, Picard B, Ogolnik R.

In this study the microleakage is first tested between the
poly-methylméthacrylate resins used in removable partial denture and the
artificial teeth after storage in 100% humidity at 37 degrees C or after aging by
an hydrothermal fatigue stress. Then the porcelain butt joint was improved by
pyrolytic silanization.MATERIALS: A metallic flask was realized, in this study,
to polymerize strictly identical samples.
RESULTS: Due to polymerization in 100% humidity, the silane bond will be
destroyed. Thermo-or chemopolymerizing resins are the only resins to allow the
bonding with porcelain teeth by means of the sandwich technic.

PMID: 2200099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Rev Port Cardiol. 1990 Jan;9(1):41-9.

[Inotropic reserve of the left ventricle in patients with chronic ischemic
cardiopathy, studied using adrenaline stimulation. Prognostic significance].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ferreira R(1), Rebelo JR, de Sá ME, Ferreira TC, Nogueira A, Ribeiro C.

Author information: 
(1)UTIC - Arsénio Cordiero, Hospital de Santa Maria.

AIMS: To study by equilibrium radionuclide angiography (ERNA) the cardiac
inotropic reserve after a myocardial infarction, and to evaluate its prognostic
value.
DESIGN: Patients in a chronic status of a myocardial infarction were studied by
ERNA at a basal state and after stimulation with epinephrine, in the same
session. Left ventricle (LV) functional abnormalities, global and regional, were 
evaluated. A 3-to-5 years follow-up was done.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty five patients with a post myocardial infarction were
included: 19 with an anterior infarction, 2 with an inferior and 4 with a
combined one. All patients had LV dysfunction evaluated by Echocardiogram at
hospital discharge. Global and regional LV function were studied by ERNA before
and after inotropic stimulation, using increasing doses of epinephrine from 4.8
to 12 micrograms/minute. Heart rate and blood pressure were monitored. ERNA
acquisition were done on left oblique best-septal and lateral views, over 400
cardiac cycles, using a Gama-camera GE 400AC. Three groups of patients were
considered, according with the change of LV global ejection fraction: increments 
greater than 2%--group A (positive response); changes between +2% and -2% - group
B; decreases greater than 2%--group C (negative response). During a 3 to 5 years 
follow-up, the incidence of major cardiac events was analysed: cardiovascular
mortality, angina, left ventricle failure, myocardial reinfarction and coronary
artery by-pass graft surgery.
RESULTS: LV global function-Inotropic stimulation was done with an average
perfusion time of 30.8 minutes, with total doses of epinephrine between 176 and
660 ng. No significant changes of heart rate (5%) or blood pressure (5.3%)
occurred. Basal LV global ejection fraction (EF) was 29.2%. Only 2 patients had a
normal LV ejection fraction; 14 patients had a severe LV dysfunction (EF less
than 30%) and 9 had a moderate reduction of ejection fraction (EF between 30% and
45%). From the 14 patients with EF less than 30%, twelve had an involvement of
the LV anterior wall. After stimulation EF value ineditreased in 9 and decreased 
in one patient. From the 11 patients with EF greater than 30%, 6 experienced a
increase of EF and 3 decreased of EF after stimulation. REGIONAL WALL MOTION:
Group A--15 patients--75 segments. In this group 39 segments were related to
necrotic ECG localization, and 79% of them contributed to EF increase after
stimulation. Forty-one segments were not involved by necrosis, and 78% had a
positive contribution to EF increase. Six patients had all LV segments
contributing to the EF increase after stimulation. The other 9 patients, had 13
segments not responding to stimulation (EF increments greater than 2%): 5 of them
were segments related to ECG site of infarction. Group B--6 patients--30
segments. Five patients had 9 segments with a positive contribution to EF after
inotropic stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2328137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Rev Port Cardiol. 1990 Jan;9(1):25-9.

[Maximal values of serum creatine phosphokinase and its myocardial fraction in
acute myocardial infarct. Correlation with a previous history of ischemic
cardiopathy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Carvalho M(1), Brito D, de Lacerda AP, Madeira H.

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Medicina IV, Hospital de Santa Maria.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the importance of preinfarction angina as a determinant of
infarct size.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of patients (pts) with acute myocardial infarction
(AMI).
SETTING: Patients admitted to an Intensive Care Unit of a University Hospital.
PATIENTS: The study concerns 224 pts, 161 men women, aged 63.09 +/- 11.92 years, 
who did not receive thrombolytic or intravenous beta-blocking therapy and in whom
it was possible to establish the presence or absence, of previous ischemic heart 
disease.
METHODS: Patients, were divided in 2 groups: A (1st AMI, 172 dts - 123 M, 49 F)
and B (2nd AMI, 52 dts - 38 M, 14 F). These groups were subdivided according the 
presence of preinfarction angina (A1, B1) or its absence (A2, B2). The infarct
size was evaluated by peak values of CK/CKMB.
RESULTS: Group A: CK/CKMB--959/101; Group B: CK/CKMB--742/77 (p-NS).
Subgroups--A1: CK/CKMB--1143/118; A2: CK/CKMB--725/78 (p less than 0.001); B1:
CK/CKMB--635/59; B2: CK/CKMB--818/88 (p-NS). The analysis of CK/CKMB values
distribution, according to the affected cardiac wall, has shown an identical
correlation.
CONCLUSION: 1--The larger infarct size in subgroup A1 (1st AMI without angina)
suggests a protective effect by collateral circulation in subgroup A2 (1st AMI
with angina). 2--The larger infarction (although not significantly) in group A
(1st AMI), correlates with less viable muscle in group B (2nd AMI). 3--The higher
values of CK/CKMB in group B2 (2nd AMI with angina) can be expected given the
presence of residual ischemia. 4--The absence of the protective role by
collateral circulation in patients of subgroup A1 (1st AMI without angina)
suggests for them a stronger indication for thrombolytic therapy.

PMID: 2328136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Rev Port Cardiol. 1990 Jan;9(1):19-23.

[Flow in the entry chamber of the right ventricle: diastolic function indexes in 
a normal population].

[Article in Portuguese]

Carmo MM(1), Ferreira T, Ferreira L, Ferreira R, Quininha J, Salomão S.

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Cardiologia, Hospital de Santa Marta (H.C.L.).

OBJECTIVES: To define normal values of indexes of diastolic function of right
ventricle by bidimensional pulsed doppler echocardiography.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective study of normal individuals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty normal subjects by physical examination,
electrocardiographic, radiological and echocardiographic criteria, aged between
22-48 (mean 31.2 +/- 6.7) were evaluated. We determined 16 different indexes and 
correlated them with heart rate, age and body surface; 27% of cases owing to the 
poor quality of records, were excluded.
RESULTS: Eight indexes were heart rate dependent and for their use is necessary
the respective correction; none of them correlated with age or body surface.
Areas determined under the curves of flow are very time consuming and require
great accuracy determination. So, we had correlated areas with other different
indexes in order to obtain other parameters to give us the same information on a 
easier and quickly way. E/A relation correlated with all areas relations.
CONCLUSIONS: The indexes determined can be considered as normal standard in order
to evaluate, by a non-invasive way, right ventricle diastolic function.
Nevertheless, the great proportion of records of poor quality is a limitation of 
the method.

PMID: 2328135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Rev Port Cardiol. 1990 Jan;9(1):33-9.

[Amiodarone and propafenone: evaluation using serial Holter recordings in
patients with ventricular arrhythmia].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ventosa A(1), Adragão P, Bonhorst D, Seabra-Gomes R.

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Cardiologia, Hospital de Santa Cruz.

OBJECTIVE: To review the experience of the Arrhythmology Department in evaluating
antiarrhythmic therapy for ventricular arrhythmias with serial Holter
electrocardiographic recordings (ECG-H). To compare the results obtained with the
most used drugs in this Department: amiodarone and propafenone (groups AMIO and
PROP).
DESIGN: Retrospective study. No statistically significant differences between the
two groups were found in respect to age, sex, underlying disease, functional
class, left ventricular function and associated therapy.
SETTING: Arrythmology Department at a Cardiology Service.
PATIENTS: 105 sequential patients with ventricular arrhythmias in a basal ECG-H
recording, that were evaluated within 1 year with a new recording on amiodarone
or propafenone, without major clinical events or therapeutic changes between the 
two recordings. INTERVENTIONS (daily oral doses): Amiodarone 200-600 (mean 270)
mg or propafenone 300-900 (mean 602) mg.
RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were found between the two
groups, in either the basal ECG-H or that recorded on therapy. The two drugs were
similar in the degree of suppression of ventricular premature complexes per hour 
(VPCH): equal or superior to 75% in 64.3% of the patients on amiodarone and in
63.9% of those on propafenone. The following reductions on therapy were
statistically significant (p less than 0.001 if not specified): VPCH, from 346
+/- 480 to 86 +/- 158 on amiodarone and from 418 +/- 524 to 110 +/- 215 on
propafenone; most complex arrhythmia recorded, on both drugs; number of patients 
with pairs, from 72.1 to 34.9% on amiodarone and from 69.4 to 33.9% on
propafenone; number of patients with runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia
(VT), from 27.9 to 2.3% on amiodarone (p less than 0.01); number of runs of VT
per recording, from 3 +/- 5 to 1 on amiodarone (p less than 0.06); and maximum
number of complexes per run of VT, from 8 +/- 8 to 4 on amiodarone and from 7 +/-
4 to 5 +/- 1 on propafenone (both with p less than 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: Holter recordings were useful in evaluating antiarrhythmic therapy. 
The effectiveness of amiodarone and propafenone in treating ventricular
arrhythmias was not significantly different. The choice between one of these
drugs must rely on their collateral effects profile.

PMID: 1691653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Symp Soc Exp Biol. 1990;44:285-98.

Oligosaccharins from xyloglucan and cellulose: modulators of the action of auxin 
and H+ on plant growth.

Fry SC(1), McDougall GJ, Lorences EP, Biggs KJ, Smith RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Edinburgh, U.K.

The dose/response curve for auxin's action as a plant growth promoter is
extremely wide. How does the cell vary its response to such a wide range of
signal intensity? We suggest that cell wall-bound cellulase, and the products of 
its action on the wall polysaccharides xyloglucan and cellulose, provide a
complex regulatory system, acting at three or possibly four different levels. Our
recent observations will be presented in terms of the following speculations. (1)
SPECULATION: Low levels of auxin activate cellulase (by inducing
H(+)-secretion?), which cuts inter-microfibrillar xyloglucan chains, loosening
the cell wall and tending to promote growth.OBSERVATION: auxins induce xyloglucan
turnover and decrease the mean Mr of wall xyloglucan. Re-incorporation of
xyloglucan fragments suggests that transglycosylation predominates over
hydrolysis. (2) SPECULATION: Moderate levels of auxin activate cellulase further;
the enzyme generates small amounts (nM) of oligosaccharides, some of which are
growth-inhibitory. This process tends to moderate growth.
OBSERVATION: Xyloglucan nonasaccharide (XG9-see Fig. 2) at 1-10 nM antagonises
auxin-induced growth. The effect is seen with fucose-containing oligosaccharides 
(XG9, XG5, fucosyl-lactose), but not with XG7 or XG8. XG9 (1 nM) and XG10 (0.1
nM) and cellohexaose (10 nM) also block H(+)-induced growth. (3) SPECULATION:
Higher levels of auxin induce cellulase synthesis leading to the generation of
higher concentrations of oligosaccharides that can mimic auxin. This process thus
tends to restore growth.
OBSERVATION: all xyloglucan-oligosaccharides tested (HPLC-pure XG7, XG8, XG9,
XG9n - Fig. 2) promote growth at 1 microM, the order of effectiveness being XG9n 
greater than XG8 greater than XG7 conquent to XG9. The same oligosaccharides (at 
1-100 microM) promote the mid-chain hydrolysis of xyloglucan by plant cellulase, 
while slightly inhibiting total hydrolysis. The order of effectiveness is XG9n
congruent to XG8 greater than XG7 congruent to XG9. The promotion of mid-chain
hydrolysis (and/or transglycosylation) might be expected to be particularly
effective at loosening the cell wall: most of the wall's xyloglucan molecules
might suffer a single cleavage rather than a few of them undergoing complete
degradation. (4) SPECULATION: Very high levels of auxin induce excessive levels
of cellulase, and therefore of oligosaccharides. This inhibits growth.
OBSERVATION: XG7, XG9 and XG9n lose their auxin-like activity at 10 microM.

PMID: 2130516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1990;112(16):1023-30.

[Efficacy of an adjuvant norethisterone acetate therapy (NEA) of endometrial
carcinoma treated with primary surgery or irradiation].

[Article in German]

Krafft W(1), Steuckardt R, König EM, Schirmer A, Schmeisser G, Brückmann D.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Gynäkologie und Geburtshilfe, Medizinischen Akademie,
Erfurt.

The efficiency of NEA (norethisteronacetate) as an adjuvant hormone therapy in
196 pat. suffering from endometrial cancer has been evaluated in a prospective
randomized trial. Primarily 93 patients had been operated on and 103 ones
irradiated. From these 45 patients following surgery and 51 ones following
radiation therapy had been treated with NEA. Schedule of adjuvant NEA therapy was
for a time 6 ms 50 mg/d followed by 6 ms pause and so on till 5 years post op. 5 
years survival in the operation group was 91.7 per cent without and 81.6 per cent
with NEA, in the irradiated group 43.1 per cent and 44.8 per cent respectively.
Side effect (47.9%) were caused by NEA at least twice higher than in control
groups.IN CONCLUSION: the adjuvant hormone treatment without hormone receptor
analysis is not recommendable.

PMID: 2220176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 1990;15(3):187-90.

[An approach to mechanism of function of auricular point].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu W(1), Xu G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Acupuncture and Meridian, Anhui College of T C M, Hefei.

This investigation was performed with thirty adult rabbits which divided
auricular vagus, great auricular, cervical sympathetic and all auricular
denervation. By gastrointestinal electro-physiologic methods, the changes of
gastrointestinal electric activity in corpus, antrum, duodenum and colon were
observed with car needing to evaluate the mechanism of function of auricular
point.RESULTS: In intact car innervation, the changes of gastrointestinal
electric activity on ear needling were obvious (P less than 0.05-0.01). While the
one with ear nerve selected showed that influence of ear acupuncture still
remained, but when the whole auricle was denervated the influence of ear needling
on gastrointestinal electric activity obviously deceased or disappeared. pro- and
post needing the changes on gastrointestinal electric activity were not
statistically different (P greater than 0.05). Recordings at the four parts of
digestive tract gave similar results in frequency, amplitude, motility index,
action area integral. Exerting stimulation on gastric vagus or sympathetic nerves
could bring about double phase modulatory (excitatory or inhibitory). The above
revealed that the functions of ear point in diagnosis and therapy is not due to
one kind of nerves in periphery. The functions of ear point at innervation may be
in its entirety. It was reported that function of ear points has something to do 
with auricular vagus or great auricular or sympathetic nerves, but, this is only 
one side of the matter. Moreover, since auricular point are associated with
various propagation tracts and with modulation of nerve centers, their mechanism 
is very complicated and needs to be further studies.

PMID: 2125876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 1990;15(2):147-9.

[The study of effect of pain in the change of respiration by stimulating
"renzhong" acupoint].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang M(1), Zhang H, Liu L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of physiology, Shandong Medical University, Jinan.

It had been reported that the stimulation of the "Renzhong" starts respiratory
activity in rabbits whose respiration has been suspended. This action was caused 
by stimulating Renzhong. Those signals transmit to the nucleus of trigeminal
spinal, and go to influence the nucleus of respiration. Those signals include of 
pain and other sense. This study investigated whether this stimulation of
"Renzhong" is caused by pain or another stimulus. Phrenic nerve discharges and
respiratory rates of 7 anesthetized rabbits, each weighing 1.5 to 2.0 kg were
recorded. Stimulation of the "Renzhong" by electrical impulses (10 ms pulse, 20
Hz, 0.4-4 mA, duration 3-5 seconds).RESULTS: 1. Stimulating the "Renzhong",
resulted in an 83 +/- 16% increase in the amplitude of phrenic nerve discharges, 
and a 31 +/- 6% decrease in respiratory rate. 2. morphine was then injected into 
the rabbits (5 mg/kg). After 8 minutes, the amplitude of phrenic nerve discharges
had decreased by 22 +/- 9% and the respiratory rate had decreased by 16 +/- 6%.
3. At this acupoint, stimulation of the "Renzhong" resulted in a 43 +/- 8%
increase of the amplitude of phrenic nerve discharges and a 20 +/- 6% decrease in
respiratory rate. These results suggest that in the effect of the stimulation of 
"Renzhong" on the respiration pain sensation is one factor among the rest.

PMID: 2125865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 1990;15(1):40-3.

[The influence of electric needling "Juci" on nail-bed microcirculation of
apoplectic patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu G(1), Xiao Y.

Author information: 
(1)Shandong College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan.

"Juci" is one kind of acupuncture methods. It is that acupoints of the one side
are used to treat the disease of the another side. In order to prove this theory 
and the difference from puncturing paralytic side (Tanci) 30 patients with
hemiplegia due to cerebral infarction were observed under the same condition and 
stimulative parameter. Selecting points: Hegu and Quchi acupoint were electrified
for 15 minutes. The changes of Nail-bed microcirculation were observed for half
an hour and recorded after pulling out needles.CONCLUSION: Through the
observation of outline of blood vessel, colour of blood vessel ansa, ansa's top
blood-stasis of blood vessel, condition of blood flow and the rate of blood flow 
before and after Juci (puncturing healthy side) they were different or quite
different on the hemiplegic side (p less than 0.05 or p less than 0.01). however,
only the colour of blood-vessel ansa and rate of blood flow were different,
others had no statistical significance on healthy side. Though puncturing
paralytic side can make the nail-bed microcirculation improved, only rate of
blood flow was different. Others had no statistical significance. In short both
Juci and Tanci improve the nail-bed microcirculation of hemiplegic side, but the 
former is much better than the latter.

PMID: 2118004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. BMJ. 1989 Dec 23-30;299(6715):1560-2.

Urinary retention and the lunisolar cycle: is it a lunatic phenomenon?

Payne SR(1), Deardon DJ, Abercrombie GF, Carlson GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, St Mary's Hospital, Portsmouth.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a relation between urinary retention and temporal
rhythms exists.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients presenting over three years.
SETTING: Urology departments in two hospitals.
PATIENTS: 815 Patients presenting as emergency admissions with urinary retention 
and requiring immediate decompression of the bladder.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Calendar date of each admission to determine circadian,
monthly, and seasonal periodicity.
RESULTS: No association was found between urinary retention and circadian,
monthly, or seasonal rhythms. A significantly higher (p less than 0.001)
incidence of urinary retention was observed during the new moon in comparison
with other phases of the lunar cycle.
CONCLUSIONS: Urinary retention is periodic in nature. This should be considered
when the workload of a specialist urological department is organised.

PMCID: PMC1838760
PMID: 2514900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1511-3.

Patients' and general practitioners' satisfaction with information given on
discharge from hospital: audit of a new information card.

Sandler DA(1), Heaton C, Garner ST, Mitchell JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Pharmacy, University Hospital, Queen's Medical Centre,
Nottingham.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the attitudes of patients discharged from hospital and
their general practitioners to a new information card giving details about
admission, diagnosis, and treatment and to assess the completeness of the
information on the card.
DESIGN: Consecutive patients discharged from the care of three consultant
physicians over 16 weeks.
SETTING: One general medical ward in a large teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: A total of 275 consecutive discharges of 258 patients were studied. The
mean age of patients was 60 years and mean duration of admission five days.
INTERVENTION: At discharge from the ward all study patients received an
information card and a copy of the card in the form of an interim discharge
letter to be delivered to their general practitioner. Patients and general
practitioners were asked to complete a questionnaire giving their views on the
legibility, helpfulness, quality, and quantity of the information they received. 
Copies of all the information cards were scrutinised for completeness.
MAIN RESULTS: The results were based on 208 (76%) forms returned by patients and 
214 (78%) forms returned by general practitioners. Information was considered
very helpful or quite helpful according to 170 (83%) forms from patients and 197 
(92%) forms from general practitioners; sufficient information was provided
according to 160 and 182 forms. Most patients and nearly all general
practitioners thought it was a good idea to provide this information for patients
at discharge. According to 125 forms from patients and 188 from general
practitioners the information card was very easy or quite easy to read; 155
patients had read it at least twice and 149 were likely to refer to it again.
OTHER RESULTS: The written information about the patient, the diagnosis, and what
the patient had been told was generally well completed, although the date of
discharge was omitted from 42 (15%) cards. Details of drugs prescribed at
discharge were generally thorough.
CONCLUSIONS: Giving an information card to all patients at discharge was feasible
and favoured by most patients and their general practitioners. Having made minor 
changes in design, we think that we have produced an information card that is a
convenient size and will improve communication between patients, their general
practitioners, and hospital doctors. We now issue this card routinely to all
patients discharged from our ward and hope that it might be widely adopted.

PMCID: PMC1838359
PMID: 2514868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1497-502.

Body weight and mortality in middle aged British men: impact of smoking.

Wannamethee G(1), Shaper AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and General Practice, Royal Free Hospital
School of Medicine, London.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relation between body mass index and mortality in middle
aged British men.
DESIGN: Men who were recruited for the British Regional Heart Study were followed
up for a mean of nine years.
SETTING: General practices in 24 British towns.
SUBJECTS: 7735 Men aged 40-59 years selected from the age-sex registers of one
group practice in each of the 24 towns.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Mortality from cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular
causes.
RESULTS: 660 Of the men died. There was a U-shaped relation between body mass
index and total mortality. Very lean men (less than 20 kg/m2) had by far the
highest mortality followed by lean men (20-22 kg/m2) and obese men (greater than 
or equal to 28 kg/m2). The high mortality in lean and very lean men was due
largely to non-cardiovascular causes, particularly lung cancer and respiratory
disease, which are associated with cigarette smoking. In obese men deaths were
more likely to be due to cardiovascular causes. There was a strong inverse
association between body weight and cigarette smoking. When the pattern of
mortality was examined by age, smoking habits, and pre-existing smoking related
disease both very lean men and obese men consistently had an increased mortality.
The U-shaped relation was most prominent in men in the oldest age group (55-59). 
Current smokers had a higher mortality than former smokers at virtually all
values of body mass index. An increased mortality in lean men was seen only in
current smokers and in men with smoking related disease. Among men who had never 
smoked, lean men had the lowest total mortality, thereafter mortality increased
with increasing body mass index (p less than 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides strong evidence of the impact of cigarette
smoking on body weight and mortality and strongly suggests that the benefits of
giving up smoking are far greater than the problems associated with the increase 
in weight that may occur.

PMCID: PMC1838398
PMID: 2514861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1494-7.

Consequences and treatment of ovarian failure after total body irradiation for
leukaemia.

Cust MP(1), Whitehead MI, Powles R, Hunter M, Milliken S.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, King's College School of
Medicine and Dentistry, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 3;300(6720):330.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incidence and severity of physical and psychosexual
symptoms in young women due to ovarian failure caused by total body irradiation
for leukaemia and the women's response to hormone treatment.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire and interview.
SETTING: Leukaemia unit of oncology hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive series of 46 English speaking women who had developed
ovarian failure after total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation as
treatment for leukaemia.
RESULTS: Of the 36 responders, 33 reported some symptoms, vaginal dryness being
the most common (29). This profoundly affected sexual function. Although 22 women
had had sexual intercourse within six months after treatment, 16 were less
interested in and 18 experienced difficulties with sexual intercourse. Anxieties 
about sterility, femininity, and appearance were common and reduced self
confidence. Almost half reported that they had changed their social habits and
restricted their social activities. Treatment seemed effective in abolishing
symptoms in 24 women, but vaginal dryness remained a problem in three. Two women 
failed to respond and intercourse remained impossible.
CONCLUSIONS: Such patients are vulnerable and access to gynaecologists and
endocrinologists soon after treatment would be valuable. The optimal treatment
regimen and the long term benefits of treatment have yet to be established.

PMCID: PMC1838360
PMID: 2514860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1491-4.

Snoring in children: association with respiratory symptoms and passive smoking.

Corbo GM(1), Fuciarelli F, Foresi A, De Benedetto F.

Author information: 
(1)Divisione di Pneumologia Pediatrica, Centro Auxologico Italiano, Verbania.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1990 Jan 27;300(6719):226.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relation between snoring and various respiratory
symptoms and passive parental smoking.
DESIGN: Data were collected by questionnaire.
SETTING: Primary schools in Guardiagrele and Francavilla in the Abruzzi region in
central Italy.
SUBJECTS: 1615 Children aged 6-13 years were categorised according to whether
they snored often; occasionally apart from with colds; only with colds; or never.
RESULTS: 118 Children were habitual snorers and 137 were reported to snore apart 
from when they had colds. Never snorers (n = 822) were significantly older than
children in other categories. Snoring was significantly associated with rhinitis,
production of cough and sputum, previous tonsillectomy, and passive parental
smoking. Of the habitual snorers, 82 were exposed to passive smoking. The
prevalence of habitual snoring increased significantly with the number of
cigarettes smoked by parents (from 5.5% in never smoking [corrected] households
to 8.8% in heavy smoking households).
CONCLUSIONS: Snoring is quite common in children. The dose-effect relation of
smoking and snoring shown in this study adds weight to a further adverse effect
of parental smoking on children's health.

PMCID: PMC1838384
PMID: 2514859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


130. BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1487-91.

Mortality among oral contraceptive users: 20 year follow up of women in a cohort 
study.

Vessey MP(1), Villard-Mackintosh L, McPherson K, Yeates D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine and General Practice, Radcliffe, Infirmary,
Oxford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 3;300(6720):330-1.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether the use of oral contraceptives influences mortality.
DESIGN: Non-randomised cohort study of 17,032 women followed up on an annual
basis for an average of nearly 16 years.
SETTING: 17 Family planning clinics in England and Scotland.
SUBJECTS: Women recruited during 1968-74. At the time of recruitment each woman
was aged 25-39, married, a white British subject, willing to participate, and
either a current user of oral contraceptives or a current user of a diaphragm or 
intrauterine device (without previous exposure to the pill).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall mortality and cause specific mortality.
RESULTS: 238 Deaths occurred during the follow up period. The main analyses
concerned women entering the study while using either oral contraceptives or a
diaphragm or intrauterine device. The overall relative risk of death in the oral 
contraceptive users was 0.9 (95% confidence interval 0.7 to 1.2). Though the
numbers of deaths were small in most individual disease categories, the trends
observed were generally consistent with findings in other reports. Thus the
relative risk of death in the oral contraceptive users was 4.9 (95% confidence
interval 0.7 to 230) for cancer of the cervix, 3.3 (95% confidence interval 0.9
to 17.9) for ischaemic heart disease, and 0.4 (95% confidence interval 0.1 to
1.2) for ovarian cancer. There was a linear trend in the death rates from
cervical cancer and ovarian cancer (in opposite directions) with total duration
of oral contraceptive use. Death rates from breast cancer (relative risk 0.9; 95%
confidence interval 0.5 to 1.4) and suicide and probable suicide (relative risk
1.1; 95% confidence interval 0.3 to 3.6) were much the same in the two
contraceptive groups. In 1981 the relative risk of death in oral contraceptive
users from circulatory diseases as a group was reported to be 4.2 (95% confidence
interval 2.3 to 7.7) in the Royal College of General Practitioners oral
contraception study. The corresponding relative risk in this study was only 1.5
(95% confidence interval 0.7 to 3.0).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings contain no significant evidence of any overall effect
of oral contraceptive use on mortality. None the less, only small numbers of
deaths occurred during the study period and a significant adverse (or beneficial)
overall effect might emerge in the future. Interestingly, the mortality from
circulatory disease associated with oral contraceptive use was substantially less
than that found in the Royal College of General Practitioners study.

PIP: The objective of this study is to see whether the use of oral contraceptives
(OC) influences mortality. A non-randomized cohort study of 17,032 women was
followed up on an annual basis for an average of nearly 16 years in 17 family
planning clinics in England and Scotland. Women were recruited during 1968-74. At
the time of recruitment each woman was aged 25-39, married, a white British
subject, willing to participate, and either a current user of OC or a current
user of a diaphragm or intrauterine device (without previous exposure to the
pill). Overall mortality and cause specific mortality were measured. 238 deaths
occurred during the follow-up period. The main analyses concerned women entering 
the study while using either OC or a diaphragm or intrauterine device. The
overall relative risk of death in the OC users was 0.9 (95% confidence interval
0.7 to 1.2). Though the numbers of deaths were small in most individual disease
categories, the trends observed were generally consistent with findings in other 
reports. Thus the relative risk of death in the OC users was 4.9 (95% confidence 
interval 0.7 to 230) for cancer of the cervix, 3.3 (95% confidence interval 0.9
to 17.9) for ischemic heart disease, and 0.4 (95% confidence interval 0.1 to 1.2)
for ovarian cancer. There was a linear trend in the death rates from cervical
cancer and ovarian cancer (in opposite directions) with total duration of OC use.
Death rates from breast cancer (relative risk 0.9; 95% confidence interval 0.5 to
1.4) and suicide and probable suicide (relative risk 1.1; 95% confidence interval
0.3 to 3.6) were much the same in the 2 contraceptive groups. In 1981 the
relative risk of death in OC users from circulatory diseases as a group was
reported to be 4.2 (95% confidence interval 2.3 to 7.7) in the Royal College of
General Practitioners OC study. The corresponding relative risk in this study was
only 1.5 (95% confidence interval 0.7 to 3.0). These findings contain no
significant evidence of any overall effect of OC use on mortality. Nonetheless,
only small numbers of death occurred during the study period and a significant
adverse (or beneficial) overall effect might emerge in the future. Interestingly,
the mortality from circulatory disease associated with OC use was substantially
that found in the Royal College study. (author's modified).
PMCID: PMC1838344
PMID: 2514858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):992-1000.

Recombinant human erythropoietin in anemic patients with end-stage renal disease.
Results of a phase III multicenter clinical trial.

Eschbach JW(1), Abdulhadi MH, Browne JK, Delano BG, Downing MR, Egrie JC, Evans
RW, Friedman EA, Graber SE, Haley NR, et al.

Author information: 
(1)University of Alabama, Birmingham.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and safety of recombinant human
erythropoietin (rHuEpo).
PATIENTS: Hemodialysis patients (333) with uncomplicated anemia (hematocrit less 
than 0.30). All received rHuEpo intravenously, three times per week at 300 or 150
U/kg body weight, which was then reduced to 75 U/kg and adjusted to maintain the 
hematocrit at 0.35 +/- 0.03 (SD).
RESULTS: The baseline hematocrit (0.223 +/- 0.002) increased to 0.35, more than
0.06 over baseline within 12 weeks in 97.4% of patients. Erythrocyte transfusions
(1030 within the 6 months before rHuEpo therapy) were eliminated in all patients 
within 2 months of therapy. Sixty-eight patients with iron overload had a 39%
reduction in serum ferritin levels after 6 months of therapy. The median
maintenance dose of rHuEpo was 75 U/kg, three times per week (range, 12.5 to 525 
U/kg). Nonresponders had complicating causes for anemia, myelofibrosis, osteitis 
fibrosa, osteomyelitis, and acute or chronic blood loss. Adverse effects included
myalgias, 5%; iron deficiency, 43%; increased blood pressure, 35%; and seizures, 
5.4%. The creatinine, potassium, and phosphate levels increased slightly but
significantly. The platelet count increased slightly but there was no increase in
clotting of vascular accesses.
CONCLUSIONS: The anemia of hemodialysis patients is corrected by rHuEpo resulting
in the elimination of transfusions, reduction in iron overload, and improved
quality of life. Iron stores and blood pressure must be monitored and treated to 
maintain the effectiveness of rHuEpo and to minimize the threat of hypertensive
encephalopathy.

PMID: 2688507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):982-91.

Variability of pulmonary function in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency: clinical
correlates.

Silverman EK(1), Pierce JA, Province MA, Rao DC, Campbell EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the range of pulmonary function variability in
alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficient persons and to identify epidemiologic factors and
pulmonary symptoms and conditions associated with this variability.
DESIGN: Case series ascertained through investigation of extant obstructive lung 
disease (index cases, 22 subjects) or by other means (non-index cases, 30
subjects).
SETTING: Referral-based pulmonary division at a tertiary care medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-two alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficient persons of type Pi Z
ascertained by: extant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (22 cases), family
studies (20 cases), liver disease (4 cases), population screening (4 cases), and 
other pulmonary problems (2 cases).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Pulmonary function tests and a version of the
American Thoracic Society 1978 standard respiratory epidemiology questionnaire
were used. Persons of type Pi Z who were not specifically ascertained with
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease had values of forced expiratory volume in 1
second over 65% of predicted in 20 out of 30 cases and frequently had normal lung
function. Univariate and multivariate analyses of possible causes of lung disease
showed that the following factors were significant (P less than 0.05): pulmonary 
symptoms (effects associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease),
including dyspnea and chronic cough; age and pack-years of smoking (epidemiologic
correlates); and other pulmonary conditions (potential causes or effects)
including asthma, pneumonia, and episodes of increased cough and phlegm. Finally,
we found a striking excess of questionnaire-reported parental emphysema in
families of type Pi Z persons with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease compared
with families of type Pi Z persons without disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Many persons with alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency do not have
clinically significant lung function impairment: the perceived natural history of
antitrypsin deficiency has been distorted by ascertainment bias. In addition to
cigarette smoking, it appears that asthma, lower respiratory infections, and
possibly some familial factors contribute to a severe clinical course. Follow-up 
of our cohort with widely varying lung function will provide insights into the
natural history of the emphysema associated with alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency.

PMID: 2596778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):1023-34.

Procedural skills of the general internist. A survey of 2500 physicians.

Wigton RS(1), Nicolas JA, Blank LL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine which of 40 clinical procedures general internists 
do in their practice, how often these procedures are done, and what training is
needed to develop and maintain competence in each.
DESIGN: Mailed survey.
PARTICIPANTS: A random sample of 2500 American College of Physicians (ACP)
members identified as general internists; 1806 (72%) responded. Of these, we
excluded 398 who were board eligible or board certified in a subspecialty and 143
with unknown status. The resulting sample of 1179 was augmented in selected
analyses by an additional sample of 199 rural internists.
RESULTS: General internists did, on average, 16 of the 40 procedures. Practice
characteristics markedly affected the number and variety of procedures done. A
larger number of different procedures was independently associated with smaller
cities, smaller hospitals, younger age, increased hours in patient care, and
certain regions of the country. Practice characteristics varied considerably by
practice type and location. Many procedures were done infrequently. There was
reasonable agreement on the experience needed to attain and maintain competency
in each procedure. The majority of respondents favored hospital credentialing for
22 of the 40 procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: General internists do a wide variety of procedures, the number and
frequency of which are affected by the characteristics and location of their
practice. Despite opinion to the contrary, more recently trained general
internists do a wider variety of procedures than older colleagues. These results 
provide data to help define standards for training and credentialing and suggest 
that we should reexamine general internists' training in procedural skills.

PMID: 2596769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):1001-5.

The effect of vitamin K supplementation on circulating osteocalcin (bone Gla
protein) and urinary calcium excretion.

Knapen MH(1), Hamulyák K, Vermeer C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Limburg, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether vitamin K administration affects urinary
calcium excretion in postmenopausal women.
DESIGN: Before- and after-trials with a 2-week treatment period.
SUBJECTS: Healthy postmenopausal women (55 to 75 years old) were recruited from
the convents in and around Maastricht. Controls (25 to 40 years old) were healthy
premenopausal volunteers.
INTERVENTION: Daily administration of 1 mg of vitamin K for 2 weeks.
MEASUREMENTS: Serum immunoreactive osteocalcin: hydroxylapatite binding (HAB)
capacity of serum immunoreactive osteocalcin; excretion of calcium,
hydroxyproline, and creatinine in the urine during the last 2 h of a 16-h fasting
period.
RESULTS: In premenopausal women, no effect of vitamin K administration was seen. 
In the postmenopausal group, vitamin K induced increased serum immunoreactive
osteocalcin concentration; normalization of the HAB capacity of serum
immunoreactive osteocalcin (this marker was less than 50% that of the controls in
the pretreatment samples); a decrease in urinary calcium excretion, notably in
the "fast losers" of calcium; and a parallel decrease in urinary hydroxyproline
excretion in the fast losers of calcium.
CONCLUSIONS: The serum immunoreactive osteocalcin level may vary with vitamin K
status. This variance should be taken into consideration if osteocalcin is used
as a marker for osteoblast activity. Vitamin K is one factor that may play a role
in the loss of bone mass in postmenopausal osteoporosis.

PMID: 2556952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):961-72.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection a median of 18 months
before a diagnostic western blot. Evidence from a cohort of homosexual men.

Wolinsky SM(1), Rinaldo CR, Kwok S, Sninsky JJ, Gupta P, Imagawa D, Farzadegan H,
Jacobson LP, Grovit KS, Lee MH, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 May 15;112(10):797-8.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the natural history of human immunodeficiency virus
type 1 (HIV-1) infection, we used an in-vitro amplification technique to detect
HIV-1 nucleic acid sequences in sequential aliquots of peripheral blood
mononuclear cells from homosexual men enrolled in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort
Study.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: Blinded, longitudinal study of 24 homosexual men who were
positive for HIV-1 antibodies at a recent follow-up visit.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Coded clinical samples were evaluated using two
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (whole virus and gp120-gp41 fragment), Western
blot, a p24 antigen capture assay, virus cocultivation, and in-vitro
amplification of conserved regions from the HIV-1 gag and env open-reading
frames. In 20 of the 24 men an HIV-1 enzymatically amplified product was detected
before HIV-1 antibody seroconversion: at 42 months before seroconversion in two
cases; at 36 months in one case; at 30 months in one case; at 24 months in four
cases; at 18 months in eight cases; at 12 months in one case; and at 6 months in 
three cases (median, 18 months). In the four other men, detection of an HIV-1
enzymatically amplified product was concurrent with confirmation of antibody
seroconversion by Western blot.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a long and variable interval between virus acquisition and 
a diagnostic serum antibody response, perhaps due to the prolonged, persistent
infection characteristic of the lentiviruses (family Retroviridae).

PMID: 2512827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1443-5.

Diagnostic and therapeutic efficacy of barium meal examination: a prospective
evaluation in general practice.

Conry BG(1), McLean AM, Farthing MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 20;300(6718):193.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of barium meal examinations in managing
patients with dyspepsia in general practice.
DESIGN: Prospective study by questionnaires completed by general practitioners
before and within three to six months after the barium meal examination.
Information was requested about the patients' symptoms, current treatment, reason
for requesting the examination, and the working diagnosis, including degree of
certainty and, after the examination, about any change in diagnosis, diagnostic
confidence, or management and to determine whether the examination was judged to 
be helpful or not.
SETTING: Inner city health district.
PATIENTS: 133 Patients with dyspepsia referred by general practitioners for
outpatient barium meal examination, 31 of whom failed to attend for the
examination, or refused it on arrival, or did not have fully completed
questionnaires. Two patients were not available for follow up.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of radiological abnormalities and the influence
of the examination result on management, particularly changes in drug treatment.
RESULTS: Fully completed pairs of questionnaires were available for 100 patients,
58 of whom were aged below 50. Most of the barium meal reports (64) were to
confirm the clinical diagnosis; only 22 were to exclude serious disease. Ninety
nine patients were already receiving treatment, with 39 taking an H2 receptor
antagonist. Fifty eight barium meal examinations showed abnormalities (31 major
abnormalities); there were no cancers and in only 18 patients was the working
diagnosis changed as a result of the findings. Although the barium meal result
increased management confidence (63 patients) and allayed patients' anxiety (46),
changes in management attributed directly to the examination occurred in only 22 
patients. Management changes were minor, usually comprising interchange of
antacids and H2 receptor antagonists.
CONCLUSIONS: Young patients (aged below 50) with dyspepsia are still being
overinvestigated. Although barium meal examination improves diagnostic confidence
and allays patients' anxiety, fully utilising communication skills at the initial
consultation might allay anxiety more economically.

PMCID: PMC1838301
PMID: 2575413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1426-9.

Hypernatraemic dehydration in patients in a large hospital for the mentally
handicapped.

Macdonald NJ(1), McConnell KN, Stephen MR, Dunnigan MG.

Author information: 
(1)Stobhill General Hospital, Glasgow.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 10;300(6721):396-7.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of hypernatraemic dehydration and to
assess the hydration and nutritional state of patients in a large hospital for
the mentally and physically handicapped; also to assess the efficacy of an
intervention programme to reduce the prevalence of hypernatraemic dehydration in 
the hospital.
DESIGN: Prospective study of patients admitted with hypernatraemic dehydration
from a large hospital for mentally and physically handicapped patients (hospital 
A) to a district general hospital between 1986 and 1988. In 1986 the hydration
and nutritional state of a random sample of patients from hospital A was compared
with a random sample of patients from a small hospital for the physically and
mentally handicapped (hospital B) and with control groups from the community. The
hydration of the patients from hospital A examined in 1986 was reassessed in
1988.
PATIENTS: 12 Patients were admitted from hospital A to the district general
hospital during 1986-8 (seven women, five men; age range 29-82). In 1986, 72
patients were randomly selected for the assessment of hydration and nutritional
state from hospital A, 33 who required help with feeding and 39 who could feed
independently. Fifty patients were similarly selected from hospital B, half of
them requiring help with feeding. In 1988 the hydration state of 60 of the 72
patients from hospital was reassessed. Control values were taken from two
published studies.
INTERVENTIONS: In 1987 nursing staff in hospital A were asked to provide between 
2.5 and 3.0 litres of fluid daily for all patients. The use of hypertonic enemas 
was discontinued, and the ratio of staff to patients was increased.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Serum concentrations of urea and electrolytes (hydration) 
and body mass index (nutritional state).
RESULTS: Of the 10 patients admitted with hypernatraemic dehydration from
hospital A to the district general hospital in 1986, four died of intercurrent
infection. No patients were admitted from hospital B with hypernatraemic
dehydration during the same time. In 1986 the hydration and nutritional state of 
patients in hospital A were inferior to those in patients from hospital B and
control subjects from the community (serum urea concentrations were 6.1 (SD 1.8) 
mmol/l v 5.5 (1.9) and 5.6 (0.4) mmol/l, respectively) 50% (36/72) of patients in
hospital A had a body mass index less than or equal to 20 compared with 34%
(17/50) of patients from hospital B and 12% (1141/9434) of control subjects).
After the initiation of the preventive programme only one patient was admitted
with hypernatraemic dehydration in each of the years 1987 and 1988. The mean
serum urea concentration of the 60 patients who were reassessed in 1988 fell
significantly between 1986 and 1988 from 6.1 (SD 1.8) mmol/l to 5.7 (2.1) mmol/l,
the value in a control group matched for age and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypernatraemic dehydration, subclinical underhydration, and
undernutrition were common in a large hospital for the mentally and physically
handicapped. The problem of hypernatraemic dehydration was successfully dealt
with by the hospital management team. Similar problems may be encountered in
hospitals for patients who are mentally and physically handicapped and mentally
ill, including psychogeriatric units.

PMCID: PMC1838303
PMID: 2532939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1423-6.

Oxytocin infusion during second stage of labour in primiparous women using
epidural analgesia: a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial.

Saunders NJ(1), Spiby H, Gilbert L, Fraser RB, Hall JM, Mutton PM, Jackson A,
Edmonds DK.

Author information: 
(1)Northern General Hospital, Sheffield.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 10;300(6721):399-400.
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 27;300(6719):262.
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 13;300(6717):123.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the high rate of forceps delivery associated with
the use of epidural analgesia could be reduced through giving an intravenous
infusion of oxytocin during the second stage of labour.
DESIGN: A randomised, double blind, placebo controlled trial.
SETTING: Delivery suites in three hospitals.
SUBJECTS: 226 Primiparous women with adequate epidural analgesia in whom full
dilatation of the cervix had been achieved without prior stimulation with
oxytocin.
INTERVENTION: An infusion of oxytocin or placebo starting at the diagnosis of
full cervical dilatation at an initial dose rate of 2 mU/min increasing to a
maximum of 16 mU/min.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcome of labour was assessed in terms of the
duration of the second stage, mode of delivery, fetal condition at birth,
postpartum blood loss, and the incidence of perineal trauma.
RESULTS: Treatment with oxytocin was associated with a shorter second stage (p = 
0.01), a reduction in the number of non-rotational forceps deliveries (p = 0.03),
and less perineal trauma (p = 0.03) but was not associated with any reduction in 
the number of rotational forceps deliveries performed for malposition of the
occiput. No adverse effects on fetal condition at birth or in the early
puerperium were seen in association with the use of oxytocin.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of an oxytocin infusion may reduce the high rate of
operative delivery associated with epidural analgesia provided that the fetal
occiput is in an anterior position at the onset of the second stage of labour but
within the dose range studied does not seem to correct malposition of the fetal
occiput.

PMCID: PMC1838287
PMID: 2514824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1383-5.

Maternal morbidity associated with in utero transfer.

Ryan TD(1), Kidd GM.

Author information: 
(1)Liverpool Maternity Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent of maternal morbidity associated with in utero
transfer.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of 190 consecutive cases over two years.
SETTING: Liverpool Maternity Hospital.
PATIENTS: 190 Pregnant women were transferred to the hospital under the in utero 
transfer arrangements from district general hospitals both within and outside the
Mersey region. The women admitted were divided into two categories: those in
threatened or established uncomplicated preterm labour and those who may or may
not have been in threatened or established preterm labour but who had coexisting 
complicating factors affecting the mother or fetus, or both.
INTERVENTIONS: Planned delivery of the fetus if indicated and arrangements for
appropriate postpartum care of the mother.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Assessment of the progress of labour and, if appropriate,
resuscitation of the mother.
RESULTS: Women who were transferred with no coexisting disease (124) had
relatively uncomplicated deliveries whereas those transferred with coexisting
diseases (66) exhibited considerable morbidity and 17 of these required prolonged
intensive monitoring after delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: In utero transfer in healthy mothers may have benefits for babies
born very prematurely. If mothers have coexisting disease, however, the
desirability of transfer should be reviewed urgently in the light of the
considerable maternal morbidity associated with these problems. In these cases
transfer may introduce an additional hazard.

PMCID: PMC1838236
PMID: 2513972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1375-9.

Effect of a training programme to reduce stress in carers of patients with
dementia.

Brodaty H(1), Gresham M.

Author information: 
(1)Memory Disorders Clinic, Prince Henry Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 3;300(6720):330.

OBJECTIVE: To reduce the psychological stress and improve the skills in coping of
people who care for relatives with dementia.
DESIGN: Assessment and suitability of carers by questionnaire; assessment of
patients and carers in a hospital outpatient clinic; allocation to groups
according to date of application to study. Linkage of groups of four carers and
programme coordinator by telephone conference calls over 12 months after
programmes. Reassessment at three, six, 12, and, for those in the "wait list"
group, 18 months.
SETTING: The programmes were conducted in the psychiatry unit of a Sydney
teaching hospital.
SUBJECTS: Eligible patients were less than 80 years old, had mild to moderate
dementia, and lived at home with their carer. Of the 96 patient-carer pairs in
the study, 33 were in the dementia carers' programme group, 31 were in the memory
retraining group, and 32 were in the wait list group.
INTERVENTIONS: Carers in the dementia carers' programme received training in
coping with the difficulties of looking after patients with dementia while the
patients had sessions in subjects such as memory retraining. In the memory
retraining programme patients were admitted and received the patient component of
the carers' programme while their carers had 10 days' respite. In the wait list
group carers waited six months before undertaking the carers' programme.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Effect of the programmes on carers' general health
questionnaire scores and the rate of placement of patients in institutions.
RESULTS: At 12 months' follow up the carers' programme had resulted in
significantly lower psychological stress among carers than the memory retraining 
programme (mean (SD) general health questionnaire scores at 0 months were 6.31
(6.23) and 3.60 (6.25) respectively, and at 12 months were 4.69 (5.58) and 7.40
(9.39); p less than 0.05.) In the wait list group distress scores remained
stable, even after the carers and patients had undertaken the carers' programme. 
Patients deteriorated over 12 months regardless of group allocation, but at 30
months, allowing for patients who died and could not be included in the analysis,
65% of patients in the carers' programme group were still living at home compared
with 26% in the memory retraining programme group.
CONCLUSION: The intensive intervention programme described for carers of patients
with dementia can reduce the psychological morbidity of the carer and delay the
placement of the patient in an institution without increasing the use of health
services by either patient or carer.

PMCID: PMC1838247
PMID: 2513967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1371-5.

Interrelations among children, parents, premedication, and anaesthetists in
paediatric day stay surgery.

Schofield NM(1), White JB.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Anaesthetics, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 13;300(6717):123.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the incidence of difficulties associated with parental 
presence during the induction of anaesthesia in children and the influence of
premedication with special reference to vomiting after papaveretum.
DESIGN: Mixed factual and multiple choice questionnaire completed by medical and 
nursing staff and parents during and after admission.
SETTING: Teaching hospital with regional paediatric general surgical unit where
parental presence during induction of anaesthesia is long established.
PATIENTS: 151 Children aged 1-14 years who had not previously undergone surgery
attending with parents for day stay general surgical procedures.
INTERVENTION: Children were randomly allocated to receive no premedication (group
1), oral diazepam elixir (0.3 mg/kg) (group 2), or intramuscular papaveretum with
hyoscine (0.3 mg/kg with 0.006 mg/kg) (group 3). No other modification to
established day stay routine was made.
RESULTS: No major problems were associated with the presence of parents during
the induction of anaesthesia. Only 10 of the 141 parents who accompanied their
child caused some difficulty, and five became distressed. Premedication with both
diazepam and papaveretum resulted in sedation but did not ease induction of
anaesthesia. Papaveretum greatly reduced pain and distress immediately after the 
operation, pain and discomfort being observed in only 15% of children (7/48)
compared with 66% (27/41) in group 1 and 49% (22/45) in group 2. Papaveretum,
however, must be given intramuscularly, and nurses observed that the children
preferred being given premedication orally to intramuscularly. In addition, the
incidences of nausea and vomiting were significantly higher in the postoperative 
ward and at home with papaveretum, although no patient who had been given the
drug was nauseous or vomited in the recovery area. The incidences of nausea in
group 3 were 62% (31/50) and 57% (27/47) in the postoperative ward and at home,
respectively, v 21% (7/33) and 14% (4/29) in group 1 and 13% (5/38) and 14%
(5/37) in group 2; the incidences of vomiting in group 3 were 60% and 43% in the 
postoperative ward and at home, respectively, v 18% and 7% in group 1 and 11% and
11% in group 2. Finally, neither the administration or otherwise of premedication
nor the drug given affected the children's or parents' perception of day care
surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Difficulties with parents in anaesthetic rooms were not common or
severe. Premedication provides preoperative sedation and papaveretum improves the
immediate postoperative course but the incidences of nausea and vomiting after
operation are higher with its use than without.

PMCID: PMC1838241
PMID: 2513966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1367-70.

Transvaginal colour flow imaging: a possible new screening technique for ovarian 
cancer.

Bourne T(1), Campbell S, Steer C, Whitehead MI, Collins WP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, King's College School of Medicine and
Dentistry, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 3;300(6720):330.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether changes in the intraovarian vasculature or blood
flow impedance can be used to identify potentially malignant masses.
DESIGN: Open, non-comparative prospective study.
SETTING: Ovarian screening clinics at King's College Hospital and the Hallam
Medical Centre.
SUBJECTS: 50 Women selected on the basis of their medical history and the result 
of a previous transvaginal ultrasound scan. Thirty women (10 premenopausal (scan 
taken on days 1 to 8 of the menstrual cycle) and 20 postmenopausal) had normal
ovaries, and 20 had at least one ovary with an abnormal morphology or volume, or 
both.
INTERVENTIONS: Women with a positive result on screening were referred for
laparotomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Presence or absence of coloured areas (neovascularisation)
and the pulsatility index within each ovary. The pulsatility index is a measure
of the impedance to blood flow, a low value indicating decreased impedance and a 
high value increased impedance to blood flow.
RESULTS: Two women with a positive result on screening had hydrosalpinges, 10 a
benign tumour or a tumour-like condition, and eight primary ovarian cancers. No
areas of neovascularisation were seen in the 30 women with morphologically normal
ovaries and the two patients with hydrosalpinges; the pulsatility index ranged
from 3.1 to 9.4. Similarly, nine patients (10 affected ovaries) with a
non-malignant mass had no signs of neovascularisation and the pulsatility index
varied from 3.2 to 7.0. One patient with bilateral dermoid cysts containing nests
of thyroid-like cells had vascular changes and pulsatility index values of 0.4
and 0.8. Seven patients (eight ovaries) with primary ovarian cancer (one stage
IV, four stage II, and two stage Ia) showed clear evidence of neovascularisation 
and pulsatility index values were from 0.3 to 1.0. One patient with an
intraepithelial serous cystadenocarcinoma in a small ovary (less than 5 ml
volume) had no signs of any vascular change and the pulsatility index was 5.5.
CONCLUSION: Transvaginal colour flow imaging may be used to identify potentially 
malignant ovarian masses and help elucidate the early stages of tumorigenesis.
The routine application of this technique may reduce the rate of false positive
results of an ultrasonography based screening procedure.

PMCID: PMC1838228
PMID: 2513965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1363-7.

Transabdominal ultrasound screening for early ovarian cancer.

Campbell S(1), Bhan V, Royston P, Whitehead MI, Collins WP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, King's College School of Medicine and
Dentistry, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 20;300(6718):193-5.
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 3;300(6720):330.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of ultrasonography in a screening procedure for
early ovarian cancer.
DESIGN: Prospective study of at least 5000 self referred women without symptoms
of ovarian cancer. Each woman was scheduled to undergo three annual screenings
(consisting of one or more scans) to detect grossly abnormal ovaries or
non-regressing masses.
SETTING: The ovarian screening clinic at King's College Hospital, London.
SUBJECTS: 5479 Self referred women without symptoms (aged 18-78, mean age 52).
INTERVENTIONS: Women with a positive result on screening were referred for
laparoscopy or laparotomy, or both.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Findings at surgery and from histology of abnormal
ovaries.
RESULTS: A total of 14,594 screenings (15,977 scans) were performed. A positive
result was obtained at 338 screens (2.3%) comprising 326 subjects (5.9%). Five
patients with primary ovarian cancer (four stage Ia, one stage Ib; two at first
screening three at second) were identified (prevalence 0.09%). An additional four
patients had metastatic ovarian cancer (three at first screening, one at second).
The apparent detection rate was 100%. It was not possible to differentiate
between the ultrasonic appearance of early malignant and benign tumours. The rate
of false positive results for primary ovarian cancer was 3.5% at the first
screening, 1.8% at the second, and 1.2% at the third. Overall the rate of false
positive results was 2.3%; the specificity was 97.7% and the predictive value of 
a positive result on screening was 1.5%. The odds that a positive result on
screening indicated the presence of an ovarian tumour, any ovarian cancer, or
primary ovarian cancer were about one to two, one to 37, and one to 67
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Ultrasonography can be used to screen women without symptoms for
persistent ovarian masses that will include early ovarian cancer.

PMCID: PMC1838264
PMID: 2513964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Am Fam Physician. 1989 Dec;40(6):99-104.

Screening for asymptomatic coronary artery disease. U.S. Preventive Services Task
Force.

[No authors listed]

RECOMMENDATION: clinicians should emphasize the primary prevention of coronary
artery disease by periodically screening for high blood pressure and high serum
cholesterol and by routinely investigating behavioral risk factors for coronary
artery disease, such as tobacco use, dietary fat and cholesterol intake, and
inadequate physical activity. Secondary prevention of coronary artery disease by 
means of routine electrocardiographic screening of asymptomatic persons is not
recommended. It may, however, be clinically prudent to perform screening
electrocardiograms in certain high-risk groups. Routine resting or exercise ECG
screening before entering athletic programs is not recommended for asymptomatic
children, adolescents or young adults.

PMID: 2686378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):645-8.

Placebo-controlled trial of intravenous diphenylhydantoin for short-term
treatment of alcohol withdrawal seizures.

Alldredge BK(1), Lowenstein DH, Simon RP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, University of California, San 
Francisco.

PURPOSE: Despite conflicting experimental and clinical evidence,
diphenylhydantoin continues to be used for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal
seizures in emergency departments and alcohol detoxification centers. Our goal
was to evaluate the effectiveness of intravenous diphenylhydantoin for prevention
of alcohol withdrawal seizures in high-risk patients using a prospective,
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study design.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety alcoholic patients, enrolled within six hours of the
initial alcohol-related seizure in a withdrawal episode, were randomly assigned
to treatment with intravenous diphenylhydantoin (1,000 mg) or placebo.
Seventy-one patients had a history of seizures during prior alcohol withdrawal
episodes. Patients with a history of seizures unrelated to alcohol withdrawal
were excluded. Drugs known to affect the seizure threshold or demonstrating
cross-tolerance with alcohol were withheld. For each patient, the study endpoint 
was either (1) seizure recurrence or (2) a minimum 12-hour seizure-free
observation period after completion of the study drug infusion.
RESULTS: During the postinfusion observation period, six of 45
diphenylhydantoin-treated patients and six of 45 placebo-treated patients
experienced at least one recurrent seizure. Equivalent diphenylhydantoin serum
levels were measured in patients with and without subsequent seizures. There was 
no statistically significant difference between the response rates for the two
treatments (p greater than 0.05). The 95% confidence interval for the difference 
in response probabilities was -14.0%, 14%.
CONCLUSION: When administered to non-epileptic patients within six hours of the
onset of alcohol withdrawal seizures, intravenous diphenylhydantoin failed to
show a significant benefit over placebo in the prevention of subsequent seizures.
We suggest that the well-documented risks of intravenous diphenylhydantoin
therapy outweigh the potential benefit in the short-term treatment of alcohol
withdrawal seizures.

PMID: 2686433  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):655-60.

Challenge with gliadin induces eosinophil and mast cell activation in the jejunum
of patients with celiac disease.

Lavö B(1), Knutson L, Lööf L, Odlind B, Venge P, Hällgren R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to clarify the role of eosinophils and mast
cells in the small bowel in celiac disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with celiac disease (n = 10) were investigated by 
perfusion of a closed jejunal segment. The concentrations of certain granule
constituents from eosinophils, eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), and from mast
cells/basophils, histamine, were measured and the jejunal secretion rates of
these cellular markers were calculated.
RESULTS: Compared with findings in healthy control subjects (n = 14), increased
secretion rates were observed under basal conditions in patients with
histopathologically active celiac disease. Gliadin, administered by perfusion to 
the jejunal segment, induced a fourfold increase in ECP secretion and a twofold
increase of histamine secretion in patients with celiac disease (n = 7), but did 
not influence the secretion rates of these substances in healthy controls (n =
3). The secretion rate of ECP started to increase 20 minutes after challenge of
the perfused segment with gliadin and reached maximum levels 40 minutes later.
The secretion rate of histamine started to increase 40 minutes after gliadin
administration. Concurrently with these inflammatory events, the secretion of
albumin was doubled as a sign of increased mucosal leakage.
CONCLUSION: These data indicate that eosinophils and mast cells are both involved
in the early gliadin-induced reactions of the small intestine, and suggest that
these cells are effector cells participating in the celiac lesion of the mucosa.

PMID: 2589401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):649-54.

Analysis of plasma histamine levels in patients with mast cell disorders.

Friedman BS(1), Steinberg SC, Meggs WJ, Kaliner MA, Frieri M, Metcalfe DD.

Author information: 
(1)Mast Cell Physiology Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

PURPOSE: The use of plasma histamine determinations as a screening tool to
distinguish patients with recurrent unexplained anaphylaxis, flushing, or both
from those with mastocytosis has never been evaluated. This retrospective study
was designed to determine if plasma histamine levels can be used as a screening
test.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Values of plasma histamine levels, measured using a
sensitive radioenzymatic assay, from 41 patients with mastocytosis, 26 patients
with recurrent unexplained anaphylaxis, and 76 normal subjects were statistically
analyzed to determine diagnostic usefulness and accuracy. Patients with
mastocytosis were subdivided into four smaller groups on the basis of clinical
and histopathologic findings: (1) isolated urticaria pigmentosa, (2) indolent
systemic mastocytosis, (3) mastocytosis with dysmyelopoiesis, and (4)
lymphadenopathic mastocytosis with eosinophilia.
RESULTS: The distribution of plasma histamine values among patients with
unexplained anaphylaxis strongly resembled that among the normal subjects (p
greater than 0.50, Smirnov test), whereas patients with mastocytosis tended to
show moderate to marked elevations above the upper limit of normal (617 pg/mL).
The geometric mean plasma histamine levels in mastocytosis subgroups 2, 3, and 4 
were found to be quite similar (1,085, 1,976, and 1,433 pg/mL; p greater than
0.50, F-test); moreover, each mean level was significantly greater than those of 
the normal subjects and of patients with unexplained anaphylaxis (p less than
0.01, Scheffé multiple comparison test). Analysis of the 27 sets of plasma
histamine values collected on patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis
revealed that the earliest value observed fell below 617 pg/mL in eight patients 
(30%). A similar analysis applied to the two earlier values indicated that both
values would fall below 617 pg/mL in 9% of the patients. Data in four patients
with mastocytosis demonstrated a diurnal variation in plasma histamine, with the 
highest values observed in the early morning (approximately 2:00 A.M.) and the
lowest values in the afternoon (approximately 2:00 P.M.).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that, on average, patients with mastocytosis have
elevated plasma histamine levels, whereas patients with unexplained anaphylaxis
have plasma histamine levels within the normal range during asymptomatic periods;
that plasma histamine levels in patients with mastocytosis exhibit a diurnal
variation; and that plasma histamine determinations alone are not useful to
screen patients for mastocytosis.

PMID: 2589400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):638-44.

The anemia of chronic disease: spectrum of associated diseases in a series of
unselected hospitalized patients.

Cash JM(1), Sears DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

PURPOSE: Previous studies of the anemia of chronic disease (ACD) have generally
begun with patients afflicted with one of the classical underlying diseases such 
as rheumatoid arthritis. The clinical spectrum of ACD has not been thoroughly
examined. We hypothesized that many patients have an anemia with the
characteristics of ACD but do not have one of the infectious, inflammatory, or
neoplastic disorders usually associated with ACD. We therefore evaluated a series
of consecutive, unselected, anemic patients admitted to a county hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients admitted to the medicine ward service of a
county hospital were screened for anemia (hematocrit less than 40% in men, less
than 37% in women). Additional laboratory data were collected on all anemic
patients, except those with active gastrointestinal bleeding, hemolytic disease, 
or leukemia or multiple myeloma. The patients were divided into three groups on
the basis of serum values indicating iron distribution: iron deficiency (serum
ferritin less than 10 ng/mL), ACD (serum iron less than 60 micrograms/dL and
serum ferritin more than 50 ng/mL), and all others (non-ACD). The hospital
records of the patients in the latter two groups were reviewed and their
diagnoses recorded.
RESULTS: Seven patients with iron deficiency were not considered further. Ninety 
patients with ACD were compared with 75 patients with non-ACD. The anemia in ACD 
patients was more severe than most authors describe. The mean hematocrit was 31%,
and 20% of patients had hematocrits below 25%. The anemia was usually normocytic 
(mean red cell volume [MCV] 86 fL), but 21% had an MCV less than 80 fL. The level
of saturation of serum iron-binding capacity was quite low in ACD (mean 15%) and 
was normal in non-ACD (mean 31%). Renal insufficiency was common in both groups; 
serum creatinine values were more than 2 mg/dL in 31% of patients with ACD and
20% of non-ACD patients. Sixty percent of patients with ACD had a principal
diagnosis that fell into the infectious, inflammatory, and neoplastic categories 
commonly associated with ACD. Renal insufficiency was the major diagnosis in 16%,
and the principal diagnosis in 24% was a disease not commonly considered to be
associated with ACD. In non-ACD patients, the principal diagnosis was an
infectious, inflammatory, or neoplastic disease in 55%, renal insufficiency in
9%, and another disease in 36%.
CONCLUSIONS: When ACD was defined by the abnormalities of iron distribution,
which are its most consistent and widely accepted characteristics, the spectrum
of associated diseases was much broader than the traditional categories of
infectious, inflammatory, and neoplastic disorders, and the overlap with non-ACD 
was large. Until the etiologic and pathogenetic mechanisms of ACD are better
understood, a flexible and inclusive view of this disorder seems appropriate.

PMID: 2589399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):633-7.

Oxygen transport and oxygen consumption during supplemental oxygen administration
in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Corriveau ML(1), Rosen BJ, Dolan GF.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Veterans Administration Medical
Center, St Louis, Missouri.

PURPOSE: Oxygen consumption (VO2) is independent of oxygen delivery (DO2) above a
critical level of DO2. VO2 may become dependent on DO2 when oxygen demand exceeds
oxygen supply. We studied DO2 VO2, and exercise capacity in 12 stable, ambulatory
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) receiving ambient air 
and 26% oxygen to ascertain whether VO2 is dependent on DO2 in this patient
sample.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An exercise protocol consisting of a symptom-limited,
low-level treadmill test with progressive increments in workload was performed
twice, once with patients breathing ambient air and once with patients breathing 
26% oxygen. Expired gas, arterial and mixed venous blood values, and recordings
of systemic and pulmonary artery pressures were obtained after a 10-minute period
of rest (while standing) and during the last minute of each three-minute exercise
level.
RESULTS: Five patients had an increase in exercise capacity, defined as an
increase in the maximal VO2 greater than 25%, using supplemental oxygen. In these
patients, oxygen delivery increased from 10.9 +/- 3.4 to 13.8 +/- 4.7
mL/minute/kg (p = 0.008) at rest and from 16.2 +/- 5.0 to 24.7 +/- 2.7
mL/minute/kg (p = 0.046) during exercise with supplemental oxygen administration.
VO2 increased from 0.329 +/- 0.065 to 0.436 +/- 0.109 L/minute (p = 0.029) at
rest and from 0.776 +/- 0.275 to 1.119 +/- 0.482 L/minute (p = 0.048) during
exercise. Three of these five patients had an arterial oxygen pressure greater
than 55 mm Hg at rest. Seven patients had little or no increase in exercise
capacity with supplemental oxygen. This patient group had no increase in VO2 at
rest. The DO2 failed to increase at rest despite an increase in arterial oxygen
content because of a reduction in cardiac output.
CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that DO2 may fail to increase in some patients
with COPD and resting or exertional hypoxemia when supplemental oxygen is
administered because of a reduction in cardiac output; that patients who fail to 
increase their DO2 are less likely to increase exercise capacity; and that some
stable, ambulatory patients with COPD who do not qualify for supplemental oxygen 
at rest by current standards may have inadequate DO2 to meet physiologic needs.

PMID: 2589398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):621-7.

Prospective evaluation of a Candida antigen detection test for invasive
candidiasis in immunocompromised adult patients with cancer.

Escuro RS(1), Jacobs M, Gerson SL, Machicao AR, Lazarus HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Ireland Cancer Center, University Hospitals of Cleveland,
Case Western Reserve University, Ohio.

PURPOSE: Serologic tests to detect invasive candidiasis generally have been
unreliable. We prospectively evaluated the clinical utility of a new, promising
commercial latex particle agglutination test (i.e., Cand-Tec, Ramco Laboratories,
Inc., Houston, Texas). This assay detects Candida antigens in serum.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined the reliability of Cand-Tec to diagnose
invasive candidiasis in 142 consecutive in-patients intensively treated with
chemo-radiation therapy. Serum samples were collected at admission and then
weekly, until the patients' death or hospital discharge. Evaluation for clinical 
utility was done using various reference titers. Twenty-nine patients had
invasive candidiasis whereas 113 patients did not have documented invasive
candidal infections.
RESULTS: At a titer of 1:8, the Cand-Tec test had sensitivity of 38%, specificity
of 90%, positive predictive value of 50%, and negative predictive value of 85%.
Weekly use of the Cand-Tec test did not improve early detection of invasive
candidiasis, providing only a mean interval of 0.4 day from the first positive
Cand-Tec result to a definitive diagnosis of invasive candidiasis by blood
culture, tissue biopsy, or autopsy. In addition, surveillance cultures from the
oropharynx or stool were not helpful in identifying those patients who would
develop an invasive fungal infection.
CONCLUSION: In the context of current clinical management strategies for
suspected fungal infection, the Candida antigen detection assay (Cand-Tec) is not
a reliable method for diagnosis of deep candidiasis in neutropenic patients.
Until better methods of early detection are available, patients at high risk for 
the development of invasive candidiasis should continue to receive empiric
antifungal agent therapy.

PMID: 2589397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):614-20.

Risk factors for nosocomial candidemia: a case-control study in adults without
leukemia.

Bross J(1), Talbot GH, Maislin G, Hurwitz S, Strom BL.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Section, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to define risk factors for nosocomial
candidemia in adult patients without leukemia at a tertiary care medical center.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients with nosocomial candidemia between August 1,
1981, and October 31, 1984, were included if they met strict selection criteria
and did not have acute or chronic leukemia. For each case, one control was
selected from among patients admitted during the same month/year and matched for 
hospital service and duration of hospitalization up to the first blood culture
that grew Candida species. Logistic regression was used to obtain estimates of
risk after simultaneously controlling for other variables.
RESULTS: Candida albicans caused 24 of the 48 fungemias studied. The risk factors
identified included the presence of a central line (odds ratio, 26.4; 95%
confidence interval, 1.5 to 451.1); bladder catheter (13.0 1.3 to 131.4); two or 
more antibiotics (25.1, 2.1 to 318); azotemia (22.1, 2.2 to 223.2); transfer from
another hospital (21.3, 1.7 to 274.5); diarrhea (10.2, 1.03 to 101.4); and
candiduria (27.0, 1.7 to 423.5). A prior surgical procedure was associated with
lowered risk (0.1, 0.01 to 0.9), suggesting perhaps that medical service patients
are at higher risk than those on surgical services. Because total parenteral
nutrition was always administered by means of a central line, it could not be
shown to increase the risk over that conferred by a central line alone.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has defined seven major risk factors for nosocomial
candidemia. These findings should facilitate development of rational approaches
to preventing infection and may assist clinicians in identifying those patients
in whom this life-threatening complication is likely to occur.

PMID: 2589396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):605-13.

Infectious disease management of adult leukemic patients undergoing chemotherapy:
1982 to 1986 experience at Stanford University Hospital.

O'Hanley P(1), Easaw J, Rugo H, Easaw S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, California 94305.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Nov;89(5):694-5.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the recent incidence of
infection and to evaluate antimicrobial usage among adult leukemic patients
undergoing chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) at Stanford University Hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of 142 adult patients from a consecutive series
of 226 induction or consolidation/maintenance chemotherapy courses for AML or ALL
between 1982 to 1986 were reviewed retrospectively. Data were analyzed to compare
the infectious disease complications and antimicrobial usage for patients
receiving identical chemotherapy for a specific phase of leukemia treatment.
Evaluation for each chemotherapy course included assessments for the following:
compliance with criteria for initiating antibiotics, incidence of infection that 
was documented by culture or clinical criteria, predictive value of surveillance 
cultures, incidence of superinfection, survival outcomes, antimicrobial usage,
antibiotic-related adverse effects, and cost for antibiotics and diagnostic
studies.
RESULTS: Antimicrobials were employed in 190 (84%) of 226 chemotherapy courses.
Broad-spectrum antibiotics were regularly begun within the first five days of
admission and they were continued for an average of 3.5 weeks until the
granulocyte count was greater than 1,000/microL after discontinuation of
chemotherapy. There were no differences in the types of infection or outcomes
among the patient groups. There was only a 37% rate of documented infections by
culture or clinical signs among these patients during their entire hospital stay.
Bacterial infections, especially those caused by coagulase-negative staphylococci
in patients with Hickman catheters, accounted for 93% of the episodes. Viral and 
fungal infections accounted for 4% and 3% of documented cases, respectively, and 
occurred more than 10 days after the institution of broad-spectrum antibiotic
therapy. A total of 922 different antimicrobials were employed in 190 courses
(average 4.9 per course). The rationale for excessive usage and multiple changes 
was a persistent or intermittent fever, rather than documented infection(s). This
practice led to usage of more broad-spectrum and expensive antibiotics. Further
analyses indicate that the greater number of antibiotics employed correlated with
apparent increased toxicity, especially renal and hepatic adverse reactions.
These toxicities were associated with higher rates of fatal outcomes, i.e., 12
(39%) of 31 patients died with antibiotic-associated hepatic and/or renal
insufficiency, compared with 12 (7.5%) of 159 patients who died without
antibiotic-associated organ damage.
CONCLUSION: Excessive antibiotic usage and multiple antibiotic changes among
adult leukemic patients undergoing chemotherapy appear to increase the risks of
adverse hepatic and renal effects and death. Furthermore, this practice leads to 
use of more broad-spectrum and expensive antibiotics...

PMID: 2589395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Am J Med. 1989 Dec;87(6):628-32.

Phase I study of low-dose zidovudine and acyclovir in asymptomatic human
immunodeficiency virus seropositive individuals.

Hollander H(1), Lifson AR, Maha M, Blum R, Rutherford GW, Nusinoff-Lehrman S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

PURPOSE: The combination of zidovudine and acyclovir has shown in vitro
antiretroviral activity and led to short-term improvement in patients with
symptomatic human immunodeficiency disease (HIV) disease. We performed a phase I 
study of zidovudine (500 mg/day) plus acyclovir (2 or 4 g/day) in asymptomatic
HIV-seropositive men to investigate pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerance, and
immunologic effects of the combination.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Fifty HIV-seropositive homosexual or bisexual men from the 
San Francisco City Clinic Cohort Study were recruited for the study; of these, 20
met the eligibility criteria. Treatment with zidovudine and acyclovir was open
label. Pharmacokinetic, virologic, immunologic, and clinical data were collected 
periodically over a 24-week period.
RESULTS: Pharmacokinetic analysis showed no drug interaction. The combination was
generally well tolerated, and hematologic parameters remained stable through 24
weeks. There were no significant changes in total lymphocytes, T4 lymphocytes,
overall skin test reactivity, or ability to culture virus from peripheral blood.
CONCLUSION: This combination of agents is safe in this population for at least
six months. Conclusions about long-term tolerance and efficacy await the results 
of larger trials with longer follow-up.

PMID: 2574006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1989 Dec;161(6 Pt 1):1586-92.

Increased placental progesterone may cause decreased placental prostacyclin
production in preeclampsia.

Walsh SW(1), Coulter S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of
Texas Medical School, Houston.

Placentas obtained from women with preeclampsia produce more thromboxane and less
prostacyclin than normal. They also produce more progesterone than normal. This
study tested whether a progesterone concentration equivalent to that in the
medium after in vitro incubation of placentas from women with preeclampsia
(greater than or equal to 1.5 x 10(-5) mol/L) could cause an imbalance of
increased thromboxane and decreased prostacyclin production by normal placentas. 
Fresh term placental tissues were incubated for 48 hours in the absence or
presence of various concentrations of progesterone and/or estradiol. Prostacyclin
and thromboxane were determined by radioimmunoassay of their stable metabolites, 
6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha and thromboxane B2. A progesterone concentration of
1.5 x 10(-5) mol/L significantly (p less than 0.001) inhibited prostacyclin
production, compared with control, but lower concentrations did not. Estradiol at
concentrations present in the medium after incubation of either normal or
preeclamptic placental tissue did not significantly affect prostacyclin
production, nor did it prevent progesterone at 1.5 x 10(-5) mol/L from inhibiting
prostacyclin. Thromboxane production was not affected by either progesterone or
estradiol.CONCLUSION: In vitro addition of progesterone at a concentration
equivalent to that in the medium after incubation of preeclamptic placentas
inhibited prostacyclin production by normal placentas to a rate characteristic of
preeclampsia. However, it did not increase thromboxane.
SPECULATION: Increased trophoblast progesterone in preeclampsia may act by a
paracrine mechanism to inhibit prostacyclin synthesis in placental vasculature.
Progesterone's selective inhibition of prostacyclin without affecting thromboxane
may be due to the compartmentalization of thromboxane production to trophoblast
and stroma and prostacyclin production to placental vasculature.

PMID: 2513720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Anaesthesist. 1989 Dec;38(12):658-63.

[Pharmacokinetic studies following intravenous and rectal administration of
midazolam in children].

[Article in German]

Kraus GB(1), Gruber RG, Knoll R, Danner U.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anaesthesiologie, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

In children, rectal midazolam is being used increasingly for premedication, as
this substance is reported to have a short half-life and rapid action. Above all 
it is the only known diazepam derivative with a good correlation of plasma
concentration and clinical action despite its receptor binding capacity. As
pharmacokinetic data in children are lacking and different dose regimens for
rectal premedication exist, we studied plasma concentrations in 3 groups of
children. METHODS. After obtaining informed parental consent we studied children 
aged 3-7 years (15-30 kg body weight) ASA I status scheduled for minor elective
surgery. Group 1 (n = 6) received 0.1 mg/kg midazolam i.v. for induction of
anesthesia. Group 2 (n = 10) was premedicated with 0.35 mg/kg midazolam,
instilled just behind the anal sphincter; group 3 (n = 5) received 0.5 mg/kg
midazolam rectally. Blood samples were drawn up to 120 min after application. The
anesthesia technique consisted of N2O/O2, enflurane, intubation and the use of
muscle relaxants, if necessary. Midazolam plasma levels were measured by HPLC.
RESULTS. There were no differences with respect to age or body weight. Group 1:
half-life in children was shorter than in adults, Vdss was smaller and clearance 
identical. Group 2: Rectal midazolam 0.35 mg/kg has a remarkably short onset of
action with peak plasma concentrations (71 ng/ml) in the range of sedative levels
in adults occurring in 7.5 min. After 2 h they reached levels of 30 ng/ml. Group 
3 patients had peak levels of midazolam of 246 ng/ml after 12.5 min, falling to
an average concentration of 120 ng/ml after 2 h. The bioavailability of rectal
midazolam, comparing the area under the median curves, is 4.7% in group 2 and
16.1% in group 3.CONCLUSIONS: The pharmacokinetics of midazolam in our patients
showed a shorter half-life, probably due to the higher hepatic clearance based on
the high CI in children, as midazolam is known to have a first-pass effect of
30-70%. The increased metabolic transformation and the smaller amount of fatty
tissue accounts for the smaller Vdss in children compared to adults. Rectal
midazolam has a remarkably short onset and especially in a dose of 0.5 mg/kg
prolonged action due to ongoing resorption from the rectum as demonstrated by the
clinically relevant plasma concentrations. This fact must be taken into
consideration in the overall anesthesia management.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400
WORDS)

PMID: 2619028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):932-8.

Procedural skills training in internal medicine residencies. A survey of program 
directors.

Wigton RS(1), Blank LL, Nicolas JA, Tape TG.

Author information: 
(1)University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To obtain the opinions of internal medicine residency program
directors about which procedural skills residents master during training and the 
amount of training needed to attain and maintain competence in each procedure.
DESIGN: A mailed survey to all program directors in the United States.
RESPONDENTS: Program directors or their designees from 389 of 431 (90%) internal 
medicine residency programs.
RESULTS: For several procedures, 40% more respondents said all residents should
master the procedure than said all their residents do master the procedure. Some 
procedures commonly done in practice were perceived as mastered by all residents 
in fewer than half of the programs. There were few differences in procedures
learned by size or type of program. A fellowship program did affect exposure to
some procedures in the field covered by the program. Median recommendations of
training needed to master each procedure were similar to those of practicing
internists for most procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: Current residency training does not assure competency in all of the 
procedures the general internist does in practice. Program directors should
examine which skills are adequately taught, test competence, and ways to improve 
residents' skills. Practicing general internists should have access to supervised
training in procedural skills.

PMID: 2817641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):876-80.

Myocardial ischemia during cocaine withdrawal.

Nademanee K(1), Gorelick DA, Josephson MA, Ryan MA, Wilkins JN, Robertson HA,
Mody FV, Intarachot V.

Author information: 
(1)West Los Angeles Veterans Administration Medical Center, California.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 1;112(7):548-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 May 1;112(9):712.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of myocardial ischemia in patients
with cocaine addiction.
DESIGN: Myocardial ischemia in chronic cocaine users was detected by serial
24-hour electrocardiographic ambulatory (Holter) monitoring and exercise
treadmill testing in chronic cocaine users. The Holter tapes were coded, scanned 
in a blinded manner, and mixed with the tapes of 42 normal volunteers and 119
patients with either stable or unstable angina.
SETTING: A 28-day inpatient, substance abuse treatment program followed by an
outpatient treatment program.
PATIENTS: Twenty-one consecutive male chronic cocaine users.
MAIN RESULTS: Eight of the 21 patients with cocaine addiction had frequent
episodes of ST elevation during Holter monitoring; these episodes occurred almost
exclusively during the first 2 weeks of withdrawal. None of the volunteers and
patients with stable angina and only 4% of the patients with unstable angina had 
episodes of ST elevation during Holter monitoring (cocaine users compared with
volunteers, P = 0.0004). Of the 20 cocaine patients who had exercise treadmill
testing, only 1 had a positive test for ischemia.
CONCLUSIONS: Cocaine users frequently develop silent myocardial ischemia
manifesting as episodes of ST elevation during the first weeks of withdrawal. The
underlying mechanisms for these changes remain unknown, but our observations
support the hypothesis that coronary vasospasm plays an important role in
cocaine-related ischemic syndromes.

PMID: 2817640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):900-5.

Fish oil supplementation does not lower plasma cholesterol in men with
hypercholesterolemia. Results of a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover
study.

Wilt TJ(1), Lofgren RP, Nichol KL, Schorer AE, Crespin L, Downes D, Eckfeldt J.

Author information: 
(1)Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Minneapolis.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 15;112(8):633-4.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of fish oil supplementation on plasma
cholesterol in middle-aged men with isolated hypercholesterolemia.
DESIGN: Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled (safflower oil) two-period
crossover trial with 12-week treatment periods.
SETTING: Outpatient general medicine clinic at a university-affiliated Veterans
Affairs hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight men with plasma cholesterol between 5.68 and 7.76 mmol/L
(220 to 300 mg/dL), triglyceride levels less than 3.39 mmol/L (300 mg/dL), and
free of coexisting diseases.
INTERVENTIONS: Fish oil and placebo (safflower oil) supplementation. After basal 
measurements and a 4-week lead-in period, twenty 1-g capsules of either fish oil 
or placebo oil were provided for 12 weeks (period 1). After a 4-week washout
phase participants then received the other oil for an additional 12 weeks (period
2).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Blood was drawn at the beginning and end of each
study period and analyzed for levels of total cholesterol, high-density
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein A1, and
apolipoprotein B. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was calculated using 
the Friedewald equation. Total and LDL cholesterol increased from the before
treatment values by 4.8% and 9.1%, respectively, after ingestion of fish oil.
Compared with placebo, LDL cholesterol was significantly higher (4.5 compared
with 4.1 mmol/L, P = 0.01) and triglycerides lower (1.3 compared with 1.8 mmol/L,
P = 0.01) after fish oil. Total and HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A1 and B
levels did not differ.
CONCLUSIONS: Fish oil supplements do not lower plasma cholesterol levels in
middle-aged men with hypercholesterolemia without elevated triglycerides. They
should not be recommended as a method to lower plasma cholesterol in these
patients.

PMID: 2683921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):887-92.

The effect of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor 
on neutropenia and related morbidity in chronic severe neutropenia.

Ganser A(1), Ottmann OG, Erdmann H, Schulz G, Hoelzer D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Frankfurt, Federal Republic of Germany.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To define the clinical and hematologic effects of recombinant
human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) on patients
with chronic severe neutropenia.
DESIGN: Open-label, phase II study of rhGM-CSF.
SETTING: Inpatient hematology and surgery clinic at a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Four consecutive patients with chronic severe neutropenia, which in two
cases was complicated by severe infection, in one case by perianal fistula, and
in one case by complete rectal prolapse. Two patients had chronic idiopathic
neutropenia; one patient had congenital neutropenia (myelokathexis); and one
patient had autoimmune neutropenia.
INTERVENTIONS: The rhGM-CSF was given intravenously or subcutaneously at starting
dosages of 150 to 1000 micrograms/m2 body surface area.d for 12 to 14 consecutive
days. Two patients received a second course of daily rhGM-CSF treatment after a
nontreatment interval of 14 to 20 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In all four patients, the absolute neutrophil
counts increased from less than 0.25 x 10(9)/L to 3.2 to 19.2 x 10(9)/L within 2 
weeks of beginning rhGM-CSF therapy. Two patients had life-threatening infections
that resolved during therapy. The two other patients had major ano-rectal surgery
during rhGM-CSF treatment and had no postoperative infections.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with chronic neutropenia, rhGM-CSF may increase
neutrophil counts. This therapy may be a useful adjunct to antibiotic therapy for
patients with infection and perioperatively for patients having anorectal
surgery.

PMID: 2683920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Dec;82 Spec No 5:31-8.

[Efficacy and acceptability of rilmenidine in mild to moderate arterial
hypertension. A multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial, in comparison with
methyldopa in 157 patients].

[Article in French]

Wilkinson R(1), Mansy S, Corcoran C.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Renal Medicine, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

A dissociation between the hypotensive activity and the central side effects has 
been demonstrated with rilmenidine (RIL) in previous studies. The object of this 
trial was to compare RIL with methyldopa (MD) during a 12 weeks' treatment (Day 0
to Day 84) and after stopping therapy (Day 84-Day 91). In particular, the trial
was designed to evaluate the acceptability of the two agents. After 4 weeks of
placebo, 76 men and 81 women (average age 55 years) were allocated according to a
randomised double-blind protocol to RIL (N = 78) or MD (N = 79). The two groups
were comparable with systolic/diastolic BP of 165/102 mmHg and 165/101 mmHg
respectively. Monotherapy was administered to all the patients from Day 0 to Day 
56 in order to compare RIL (1 mg every morning or 1 mg twice daily if necessary) 
and MD (250 mg morning and evening or 500 mg twice daily if necessary).
Hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg daily) was associated from Day 56 to Day 84 if the
supine diastolic BP was greater than or equal to 90 mmHg. A placebo was
substituted from Day 84 to Day 91 to study the effect of withdrawing
therapy.RESULTS: at Day 56 under monotherapy, the average supine
systolic/diastolic BP had decreased significantly with RIL and MD to 140/110 mmHg
and 140/100 mmHg respectively. An equivalent number of patients had normalised
their blood pressures in both groups (systolic/diastolic BP less than or equal to
160/90 mmHg): 50% with RIL and 42% with MD (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2517007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Br J Haematol. 1989 Dec;73(4):546-50.

Effect of antilymphocyte globulin (ALG) on bone marrow T/non-T cells from
aplastic anaemia patients and normal controls.

Tong J(1), Bacigalupo A, Piaggio G, Figari O, Marmont A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, Ospedale San Martino, Genova, Italy.

The aim of this study was twofold: (a) to test the effect of antilymphocyte
globulin (ALG) on bone marrow (BM) T/non-T cells, and (b) to look for a possible 
differential response of cells from severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) patients and
controls. For this purpose bone marrow T/non-T cells from normal individuals (n =
7) or aplastic patients (SAA, n = 13) were kept in liquid culture with or without
ALG. Supernatants were then tested for enhancement/suppression on colony forming 
unit, granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) growth (in the presence of exogenous
recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (rGM-CSF)), or for
their ability to support CFU-GM growth (in the absence of exogenous rGM-CSF).
Supernatants from SAA T cells suppressed CFU-GM growth of normal bone marrow
cells in 5/12 patients (mean expected growth (EG) 71 +/- 16%), but not after
incubation with ALG (mean 110 +/- 29% EG, P = 0.03). No inhibition could be
obtained with the supernatants from untreated normal T cells. Significant
enhancement was seen with ALG treated versus untreated SAA T cells (142 +/- 28%
EG v. 105 +/- 61% EG, P = 0.01) and with ALG treated versus untreated SAA non-T
cells (165 +/- 26% EG v. 105 +/- 23% EG, P = 0.01), but not in controls.
Supernatants from SAA and control T/non-T cells were capable of promoting colony 
formation in the absence of rGM-CSF (colony-stimulating activity (CSA)
production): 16 +/- 14% for SAA-T cells and 19 +/- 18% EG for non-T cells (100% =
30 ng rGM-CSF/ml). The addition of ALG increased CSA production in T cells to 37 
+/- 23% EG (P = 0.04) and in non-T cells to 40 +/- 13% EG (P = 0.04). Similar
results could be obtained in controls.IN CONCLUSION: (a) ALG interacts in vitro
with bone marrow T and non-T cells from SAA patients, down-regulating the
production of negative lymphokines and enhancing the release of haemopoietins;
(b) the latter, but not the former effect, can be shown also with cells from
normal controls. The two effects are not mutually exclusive, and are likely to
provide maximal benefit in vivo.

PMID: 2692693  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Dtsch Zahnarztl Z. 1989 Dec;44(12):942-6.

[Axial compressive strength of amalgam fillings in correlation with cavity
preparation].

[Article in German]

Mangklabruks S, Heidemann D.

Different types of cavities were prepared in 96 model teeth: simple preparations 
without ledges and with Amalgapins, slots or a post; proximal box preparations
with an occlusal ledge, and box preparations with or without Amalgapins or slots.
The amalgam fillings were subjected to axial load by means of a Zwick machine
until the filling or the tooth fractured.RESULTS: --Occlusal ledges and box
preparations allow high load values. --Surprisingly high loads can be placed on
simple preparations without ledges but with a post. --Preparations without ledges
but with Amalgapins or slots rate lowest. --In box preparations and preparations 
with ledges, Amalgapins or slots fail to offer any significant increase in
compressive strength.

PMID: 2639011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Eur J Epidemiol. 1989 Dec;5(4):447-53.

Q-fever and autoimmunity.

Levy P(1), Raoult D, Razongles JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre National de Reference des Rickettsies, Groupe hospitalier de la Timone,
Marseille, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence and the clinical significance of two 
autoimmune markers in Q-fever (smooth muscle antibodies, cold agglutinins).
DESIGN: Six index cases with auto-immune disorders. Assays of 104 sera from
patients with Q-fever (including index cases) using immunofluorescence for smooth
muscle antibodies, microagglutination for cold agglutinins.
SETTING: French National Reference Center for Rickettsial Diseases.
CASES: 6 patients were studied with acute Q-fever and auto-immune disorders. 3 of
whom had presented a resistance to a therapy with antibiotics. Stored samples
from other patients with acute or chronic stage were also screened to appreciate 
the incidence of the two markers.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS:
CASE REPORTS: No correlation between Q-fever and smooth muscle antibodies titers 
and kinetics were found. A spurt of corticosteroids was necessary to obtain
apyrexia for the patients who had presented multiple auto-immune disorders and a 
resistance to the classical therapy. INCIDENCE; Smooth muscle antibodies were
detected in 27%, cold agglutinins in one case. They were present in 23% of the
patients with acute cases and in 38% with chronic stage.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of auto-immune disorders is unexpectedly high and could
explain some manifestations of acute Q-fever e.g the resistance to therapy with
antibiotics which are not yet clear. Then the association during the acute stage 
of auto-immune disorders with the persistence of clinical or biological findings 
after three weeks therapy could recommend the use of corticosteroids.

PMID: 2691275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Herz. 1989 Dec;14(6):323-8.

[Pathogenesis and laboratory diagnosis of venous thrombosis].

[Article in German]

Schramm W(1), Spannagl M.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Klinik Innenstadt, Universität München.

Due to the increasing number of elderly as well as chronically-ill patients,
venous thrombosis assumes an increasing role as a typical complication of many
courses of disease. Postoperatively, in patients without anticoagulation,
fibrinogen tests show venous thrombosis in the lower extremities in up to 50% but
not all were clinically relevant. Prophylactic treatment has markedly lowered the
manifestation of deep venous thrombosis. Nevertheless, in current epidemiologic
studies, the prevalence of thrombotic disease is three-fold higher (1:7,500) than
that of bleeding diseases (1:20,000).PATHOGENESIS: Congenital deficiency or
congenital dysfunction of inhibitors of activated clotting factors have provided 
insight into the functional principles of limited proteolysis. Unequivocal causes
of recurrent thrombosis are deficiency or dysfunction of AT III, protein C,
protein S or plasminogen (Figure 1). Dysfibrinogenemia, in about 10% of the
patients, leads to a tendency to thrombosis. Unclarified remains the relevance of
lowered values for factor XII, heparin-cofactor II (HC II) and histidine-rich
glycoprotein (HRG) (Table 1). Congenital disorders usually manifest themselves in
the early adulthood. For the clinical manifestation of venous thrombosis,
imbalance between pro-coagulatory and inhibitor factors are of importance,
therefore the compensatory capabilities of other protease inhibitors, for
example, alpha-2-macroglobulin should be taken into consideration. In acquired
lowering of hemostasis factors, the balance in the plasma protein cascade should 
be assessed (Figure 1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2695440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1989 Dec;17(6):1141-51.

Epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal treatment results and prognostic variables
in a series of 242 cases.

Schlienger M(1), Krzisch C, Pene F, Marin JL, Gindrey-Vie B, Mauban S, Barthelemy
N, Habrand JL, Socie G, Parc R, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Radiothérapie, Hopital Tenon, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1989 Dec;17(6):1359-61.

From 1972 to 1985, 260 cases of anal canal epidermoid carcinoma were irradiated. 
Eighteen cases treated for palliation were excluded from the study; 242 (93%)
were treated with curative intent. The sex ratio was 1/5.5; mean age was 66
years.HISTOLOGY: 60.3% were well differentiated epidermoid carcinoma; 31.0%
moderately differentiated and 8.7%, cloacogenic cases. Staging: T1: 11.5%; T2:
16.1%; T3a: 17%; T3b: 33.5%; and T4: 21.9%. Abnormal inguinal nodes were present 
in 15.3% of cases. Crude overall survival (Kaplan-Meier) for the 242 cases is
86.4% at 1 year, 63.9% at 3 years, 51.2% at 5 years, and 30.8% at 10 years.
Radiation therapy was the sole treatment for 193 cases. No chemotherapy was
given. Patients were irradiated by external beam. They received a first course of
X rays (mostly 18 MV, some 6 MV) 40 to 45 Gy (box technique) over 4 to 5 weeks in
the pelvis. Age and size of tumor were considered when deciding on the target
volume. After a rest period of 4 to 6 weeks, a second course of 15 to 20 Gy in 2 
weeks was given through a perineal field by electron-beam of suitable energy. The
mean total dose was 60.56 Gy and median was 62.5 Gy; the mean overall treatment
duration was 85.3 days (median 82 days) and the mean Time Dose Factor including
decay factor was 98.96. In this group, 5-year determinate survival was: T1-T2,
84.5%; T3a, 74.8%; T3b, 64.9%; T4, 58.9%. In 147/193 patients (76.2%) local
control was achieved. The overall anal conservation rate was 62.6%. In 106 cases 
(55%), the anus had maintained normal function. The 5-year survival rate by N was
73.3% in the absence of inguinal nodes (169 cases) and 36.1% if such nodes were
present. There was no significant difference in survival rate according to
histological type. In the second group, receiving radiation therapy plus surgery,
33/49 cases (T3b-T4) were irradiated before surgery (median dose 40.5 Gy). Post
operative radiation therapy was administered in 16 cases (T3b-T4) (median dose
49.6 Gy). The 5-year determinate survival is 53.2% for T3b and 79% for T4.
According to the log-rank test, there was no significant difference between
survival with radiation therapy alone and radiation therapy plus surgery.
Multivariate analysis of the whole group indicated that T stage is the only
predictive variable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2599902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1989 Dec;37(12):1127-34.

A longitudinal study of impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus in the
aged.

Grobin W.

Author information: 
Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

This longitudinal study of glucose tolerance in the residents of a Jewish home
for the aged (JHA) is now in its 25th year. Of 1,177 supposedly nondiabetic
persons screened on admission from 1965 to 1986, 22.5% had impaired glucose
tolerance (IGT), reflecting its undiagnosed prevalence among the Jewish elderly
in the community. The incidence of IGT was lower in 1969-1973, when the average
age on admission was 77 years, than in 1982-1986, when the average age was 83.5
years. However, aging was not the only factor affecting glucose tolerance (GT).
The rise in the residents' age in the last 10 years was not accompanied by an
increased rate of deterioration of GT in the annual screenings of 1970-1984,
suggesting that there was a delay in the effect of age on IGT and diabetes
mellitus (DM). This was attributed mainly to the multimodal antidiabetic regimen 
(ADR) prevailing in the JHA in those years. Relaxation of this regimen was
associated with a marked increase in the incidence of IGT and DM in the
screenings of 1985-1987. When 25 newly diagnosed diabetics were put on a diabetic
diet, 60% had normal or improved glucose tolerance tests (GTT) one to five years 
later. By contrast, in over half of the 80 residents whose first GTT did not
indicate diabetes and whose diet was not as strictly controlled, the repeat GTT
showed deterioration and was diabetic in 31%.CONCLUSIONS: Screening led to early 
diagnosis and institution of antidiabetic measures, probably avoiding or
postponing the need for antidiabetic medication with its risk of iatrogenic
hypoglycemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2592720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):391-4.

Accuracy of electoral registers and Family Practitioner Committee lists for
population studies of the very elderly.

Bowling A(1), Hart D, Silman A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine, City and Hackney Health Authority, London,
United Kingdom.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to assess the accuracy of Family
Practitioner Committee (FPC) lists for identifying very elderly people registered
with general practitioners.
DESIGN: The accuracy of available FPC lists was checked against the most recent
electoral register to determine which recorded individuals were still living at
their FPC registered addresses. This was followed by a postal and home visit
enquiry to validate the accuracy of the electoral register.
SETTING: The study was carried out in the London borough of Hackney.
PARTICIPANTS: The investigation was confined to persons aged 85 and over.
RESULTS: Of a total of 3018 people listed as being 85 years or over by the FPC,
1183 (39%) were listed on the electoral register. Of these, 751 (63%) were living
at their registered address, ie 25% of the people in the original FPC list. A
further 154 (5%) of the original list were not recorded on the electoral register
but were alive at the FPC recorded address.
CONCLUSIONS: the use of FPC lists alone to identify the very elderly in an inner 
city population is too inaccurate to be of value. The combined use of FPC lists
and the electoral register is better but one in six persons will still be missed.

PMCID: PMC1052880
PMID: 2614332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):385-90.

Single mothers: their health and health service use.

Beatson-Hird P(1), Yuen P, Balarajan R.

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health Research Unit, University of Surrey, Guildford,
UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to investigate differences in reported 
health and health service use in single mothers.
DESIGN: The study was a survey of data derived from the General Household Surveys
conducted by the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys (OPCS).
SETTING: The OPCS data are derived from samples of households throughout Great
Britain.
PARTICIPANTS: OPCS data for 1983 and 1984 were used, comprising approximately
60,000 individuals, of whom 793 were single mothers.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Five different health outcomes were examined, two 
on perceived morbidity and three on the use of health services. The chief
determinants of health and health services use among single mothers were housing 
tenure, employment status and the age of the youngest child. Single mother status
did not consistently contribute to self reported morbidity and uptake of care
when adjusted for other social variables, but there was a difference between
categories of single mother, with those who were separated/divorced and those who
were widowed reporting more acute illness than those who were married.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that single mothers do not form a homogeneous
group and that, if special consideration is to be given to them when planning and
allocating health service resources, this needs to be taken into account in the
context of other socioeconomic factors.

PMCID: PMC1052879
PMID: 2614331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):380-4.

Adult body height, self perceived health and mortality in the Swedish population.

Peck AM(1), Vågerö DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Huddinge University Hospital, Sweden.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to examine adult body height as an 
indicator of general health.
DESIGN: The study was a survey of a randomly selected sample of the adult Swedish
population obtained by the Swedish National Central Bureau of Statistics.
PARTICIPANTS: The sample studied was identified in 1980-81 and comprised 14,757
persons aged 16-74. Of these, 12,695 (86%) consented to interview.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Information was obtained on adult height,
socioeconomic status in childhood and adult life, self perceived health, self
reported longstanding illness, and mortality during a six year follow up. The
numbers of people in three height groups who considered their general health as
bad, who reported any longstanding illness or who died during the follow up were 
compared with the expected numbers in the same groups. The number of persons with
reduced health and the number of deaths was larger than expected in the shortest 
height group. The excess risk of dying in the shortest group (about 20% higher
compared to the tallest group) was reduced but not eliminated when present and
childhood socioeconomic group was taken into account. Coronary heart disease
mortality in particular was linked to height. The shortest group of men and women
reported the largest proportion with bad general health and longstanding illness.
For the latter the differences between height groups disappeared after
controlling for present socioeconomic status.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a detectable excess risk of morbidity and mortality from
being short. Assuming that the childhood environment is an important determinant 
of adult stature it is also important for adult health.

PMCID: PMC1052878
PMID: 2614330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):375-9.

Previously diagnosed psychiatric illness among inhabitants of common lodging
houses.

Shanks NJ.

Author information: 
Department of General Practice, University of Sheffield Medical School, United
Kingdom.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to determine the characteristics of the
homeless population and their previously diagnosed psychiatric illnesses in a
well defined inner city area.
DESIGN: The study involved a one in 10 sequential sample collected over three
years.
SETTING: Hostels and day care centres for the homeless in Manchester.
PARTICIPANTS: 420 homeless people were interviewed; 17 were excluded because of
lack of rapport.
RESULTS: The majority were single middle aged catholic males who left school
early and were unemployed; 48.7% had a history of alcoholism, 38.5% of diagnosed 
psychiatric illness, and 22.6% of psychiatric inpatient treatment. Only 21% of
those with psychiatric diagnoses were being treated or followed up at the time of
study. There was a strong association between criminal behaviour and previous
admission to a psychiatric unit.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a high incidence of psychiatric illness among the homeless,
particularly among those originating from the locality studied. They tend to be
geographically stable and therefore accessible to the provision of facilities for
continuing care.

PMCID: PMC1052877
PMID: 2614329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):369-74.

Influence of fatness, intelligence, education and sociodemographic factors on
response rate in a health survey.

Sonne-Holm S(1), Sørensen TI, Jensen G, Schnohr P.

Author information: 
(1)Obesity Research Group, Hvidovre University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim was to investigate the characteristics of non-responders
to an invitation to attend a health examination.
DESIGN: Taking advantage of an ongoing study of obesity, this was a survey of a
cohort of severely obese men, with a randomly selected control group.
PARTICIPANTS: The participants were draftees to the compulsory Danish military
draft board examination between 1943 and 1977. Among 362,200 draftees, 1940 were 
identified as severely obese (body mass index greater than or equal to 31 kg/m2).
A comparison group of 1801 subjects was randomly drawn from the remaining
population. During the period 1981-3 those still alive and living in the same
region (1651 obese, 1504 control) were invited to a health examination.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The examination was attended by 964 obese (58%)
and 1134 controls (75%). In both groups an increasing response rate was
associated with decreasing body mass index, and increasing intelligence test
score, educational level, current social class, age (up to 50 years) and
proximity of residence. Logistic regression analysis showed that all these
variables had independent effects on response rate. Frequency and duration of
hospital admissions during the period 1977-82 did not differ among responders and
non-responders in either group.
CONCLUSION: Response rates in health surveys are strongly influenced by degree of
fatness, intelligence, educational level, social class, age, and proximity of
residence.

PMCID: PMC1052876
PMID: 2614328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):362-8.

Cigarette smoking and benign proliferative epithelial disorders of the breast in 
women: a case-control study.

Rohan TE(1), Cook MG, Baron JA.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, South Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to investigate the possible
association between cigarette smoking and benign proliferative epithelial
disorders of the breast.
DESIGN: This was a case-control study with two different control groups.
SETTING: The study was community based and took place in metropolitan Adelaide,
South Australia.
SUBJECTS: 506 biopsy proven cases between 18 and 75 years were identified, of
whom 39 could not be approached because of surgeon refusal, 66 would not be
interviewed and 18 were untraceable, leaving 383 for inclusion in the study.
Controls were 192 women who had had a negative breast biopsy, out of a possible
259 (17 surgeon refusals, 39 interview refusals, 11 untraceable); and a randomly 
selected group of women matched to the index group for age and area of residence 
(582 subjects were approached to enrol 383 controls).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All breast biopsies were examined by one
pathologist and classified using a standard system. Sociodemographic and medical 
information was collected by trained interviewers using structured
questionnaires. Overall, and within menopausal strata, risk of benign
proliferative epithelial disease for women who had ever smoked and for current
and ex-smokers was similar to that for women who had never smoked. In
premenopausal women, using community controls as the comparison group, risk
decreased with cigarette-years of exposure, but the trend was not statistically
significant. Risk appeared to increase when biopsy controls were used. There was 
no trend in the association when examined by degree of cytological atypia.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that cigarette smoking is not related to the risk
of benign proliferative epithelial breast disease.

PMCID: PMC1052875
PMID: 2614327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):352-5.

A case-control study of non-T cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia of children in
Hokkaido, Japan.

Nishi M(1), Miyake H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Sapparo Medical College, Japan.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to investigate factors associated
with the occurrence of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in cases
identified as of non-T cell type, stage I-IV.
DESIGN: The study was a case-control investigation. Data were obtained by
interview with parents of cases and controls.
SETTING: The study was community based and was carried out in Hokkaido, Japan.
SUBJECTS: 63 cases were identified. Controls (two for each case) were matched for
sex, age and place of residence.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In univariate analysis, BCG vaccination, measles
infection, measles vaccination, atopy, hip x ray, and milk intake of mother
during pregnancy had significantly low odds ratios (ie, were less likely to be
associated with leukaemia), while dental x rays for carious teeth and contact
with animals at time of diagnosis had high odds ratios (more likely to be
associated with leukaemia). In conditional logistic regression analysis employing
these seven factors, measles infection/vaccination, BCG, atopy and dental x ray
remained significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Leukaemia subtypes are likely to have specific aetiologies. Future
epidemiological research in leukaemia should take this into account.

PMCID: PMC1052873
PMID: 2614325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):346-51.

Spontaneous abortions and congenital malformations among women exposed to
tetrachloroethylene in dry cleaning.

Kyyrönen P(1), Taskinen H, Lindbohm ML, Hemminki K, Heinonen OP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to determine whether exposure to
tetrachloroethylene during the first trimester of pregnancy has harmful effects
on pregnancy outcome.
DESIGN: The study used record linkage identification of cases and case-control
comparison.
SETTING: The study involved dry cleaner and laundry workers throughout Finland
who had become pregnant during the study period. Controls were age matched but
otherwise unselected women giving birth to normal babies in the study period.
SUBJECTS: Cases were defined as women who had been treated for spontaneous
abortion or had delivered a malformed child. Out of 5700 workers nearly half had 
been pregnant during the study period. One pregnancy only was randomly selected
for study per worker, and the final study population was 247 women with
spontaneous abortions and 33 with malformed infants. Three age matched controls
were selected for each abortion case and five for each malformation case.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Three women out of four had worked in early
pregnancy. Exposure information was collected from 1108 women by mailed
questionnaires, with a 77% response, and was partly confirmed by biological
monitoring data. Exposure to tetrachloroethylene was found to be significantly
associated with spontaneous abortions (odds ratio 3.6, p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The findings, together with other available data, indicate that
exposure of pregnant women to tetrachloroethylene needs to be minimised.

PMCID: PMC1052872
PMID: 2614324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):319-23.

Are there gaps in the provision of perinatal care in Greece?

Tzoumaka-Bakoula C(1), Lekea-Karanika V, Matsaniotis NS, Shenton T, Golding J.

Author information: 
(1)1st Department of Paediatrics, Athens University, Hospital for Sick Children Agia
Sophia, Goudi, Greece.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The objective was to test the hypothesis that easy access to
sophisticated hospitals is associated with a reduction in perinatal mortality.
DESIGN: The study was a nationwide questionnaire survey of a birth cohort.
SUBJECTS: All deliveries greater than 500g weight of singleton live births and
stillbirths occurring throughout Greece during April 1983 were included.
Completed questionnaires were returned for 10,953 deliveries (8% of total annual 
registered births in Greece), and data on 10,790 singleton births were analysed, 
including 127 stillbirths and 137 early neonatal deaths.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The questionnaires contained information on
demographic characteristics of each parent, mother's reproductive history, and
clinical course of pregnancy, labour and perinatal period. Mothers living in big 
urban centres were compared with the rest of the country. Overall mortality rates
were similar but births in the big urban centres were of significantly lower
weight due to fetal growth retardation. Logistic regression analysis, taking
account of birthweight, parity, maternal age, and maternal education showed that 
there was an advantage to mothers living in big urban centres, perinatal
mortality being 63% higher in the rest of the country (chi 2 = 7.4, p less than
0.01).
CONCLUSION: The evidence obtained supports the original hypothesis and suggest
that a reduction in the high perinatal mortality rate in Greece may be achieved
by restructuring the perinatal services.

PMCID: PMC1052868
PMID: 2614321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):324-9.

Cryptorchidism: a registry based study in Sweden on some factors of possible
aetiological importance.

Hjertkvist M(1), Damber JE, Bergh A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Umeå, Sweden.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the epidemiological characteristics of boys with
cryptorchidism.
DESIGN: Cohort survey using the Swedish personal identification code and Medical 
Birth Registry to link cryptorchid boys with their pregnancy and delivery data.
They were compared with the total population of male births during the same
period.
SUBJECTS: 2861 cryptorchid boys born in Sweden between 1973 and 1982 were
identified. Of these 437 could not be linked with their Medical Birth Registry
information for various reasons, or were excluded because they were under 1 year 
of age at the end of 1982, leaving 2424 cases for study. The reference population
comprised all boys born in Sweden during the same period (n = 458,601).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For each study variable, the observed number of
cases among boys with cryptorchidism was compared with the expected number
calculated from the whole population. A significant increase in intensity ratio
for cryptorchidism was found with the first birth, caesarean section, toxaemia of
pregnancy, and certain congenital abnormalities (hypospadias and subluxation of
the hip). It was also more common in small for dates infants. There was a
seasonal variation in cryptorchidism, with increased incidence in January-March.
CONCLUSIONS: Cryptorchidism may be caused by hormonal influences during
pregnancy, which could be affected by utero-placental factors involving placental
dysfunction or by daylight hours, through pineal activity.

PMCID: PMC1052869
PMID: 2575645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Pediatr. 1989 Dec;115(6):959-68.

Nutrient intake and growth performance of older infants fed human milk.

Stuff JE(1), Nichols BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the ad libitum addition of solid foods to
the diet of exclusively human milk-fed infants will increase energy intake and
reverse the decline in weight-for-age percentiles observed during the exclusive
breast-feeding period.
DESIGN: Weekly or biweekly measures of growth were made longitudinally on a
cohort of infants from birth to 36 weeks of age, and monthly measures of nutrient
intake were made from 16 weeks of age until 10 weeks after solid foods were
introduced into the diet.
SUBJECTS: Volunteer mother-infant pairs from middle and upper income groups who
met entry criteria, including the intention to breast-feed exclusively for at
least for 16 weeks; 58 pairs entered and 45 pairs completed the study.
INTERVENTION: Solid foods were introduced at a time determined by the mother and 
the pediatrician; solid foods from controlled lot numbers were provided for each 
infant.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After solid foods were added, daily human milk
intake declined at a rate of 77 gm/mo (p less than 0.001). Milk composition did
not change during the observation period. Daily total energy intake increased 29 
kcal/mo, but no changes were noted in energy intake when consumption was
normalized for body weight. Weight (National Center for Health Statistics
percentiles) at 28 weeks was 13 percentiles lower than that at birth, and length 
at 28 weeks was 1 percentile lower than at week 1. Weight and length percentiles 
at 28 weeks, when compared with peak values at 8 weeks, had dropped 19 and 14
percentiles, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Energy intake of human milk-fed infants did not increase after solid
foods were added to their diet but was maintained at approximately 20% below
recommended levels. Energy intake appeared to reflect infant demands. These data 
suggest that the recommendations for the energy requirements of infancy should be
reevaluated. The growth pattern of exclusively breast-fed infants differs from
that of the National Center for Health Statistics reference population. These
observations raise questions about the adaptive response of human milk-fed
infants to different levels of energy intake and about the estimations of energy 
requirements based on the sum of basal metabolism, activity, growth, and
diet-induced thermogenesis.

PMID: 2585235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Surg Res. 1989 Dec;47(6):487-92.

Tobramycin-adhesive in preventing and treating PTFE vascular graft infections.

Shenk JS(1), Ney AL, Tsukayama DT, Olson ME, Bubrick MP.

Author information: 
(1)Hennepin County Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55415.

The present study was designed to determine the effectiveness of
N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate as a vehicle to deliver antibiotics locally to
contaminated vascular graft sites and to grafts with established infections.
Phase I--Contaminated wound model: Sixteen dogs had a 1-cm section of infrarenal 
aorta replaced with a PTFE graft. Prior to placement, the graft was immersed in
solutions of Escherichia coli 3 X 10(8) CFU/ml and then Staphylococcus aureus 3 X
10(8) CFU/ml. After anastomosis, 1 cc of each solution was placed directly over
the graft. Eleven dogs served as controls and 5 as treatment dogs. Parenteral
cefonecid was given preoperatively and daily until sacrifice. Treatment animals
had the anastomoses and graft sealed with a suspension of N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate
and 1.2 g tobramycin powder (antibiotic glue, ANGL) after contamination. All dogs
were reoperated on the third postoperative day.RESULTS: Eleven of 11 control dogs
had positive cultures for S. aureus and 9 of 11 had positive cultures for E.
coli. Seven of 11 had pseudoaneurysms, 1 exsanguinated. None of the 4 treatment
dogs had positive cultures (P = 0.0002), pseudo-aneurysms (P = 0.017), or local
signs of sepsis. Phase II--Infected graft model: The 10 surviving infected
control dogs served as the established graft infection model. These dogs were
randomized into two groups; Group 1 control (N = 5) had the graft replaced; Group
2 treatment (N = 5) had the graft replaced and ANGL treatment. Dogs were
sacrificed after 2 weeks.
RESULTS: Graft cultures were positive in all 4 control dogs and negative in the 4
treatment dogs (P = 0.005). One dog in each group was eliminated secondary to
failure to obtain graft culture. The data show that ANGL can be effective in the 
prevention and treatment of prosthetic graft infection.

PMID: 2685469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Kekkaku. 1989 Dec;64(12):810-4.

[Treatment of cor pulmonale as a sequela of pulmonary tuberculosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueda E.

Cor pulmonale is an important cause of death in patients with pulmonary
tuberculosis. However, the treatment of cor pulmonale is difficult and its result
is usually miserable. Many factors are considered to be responsible for the
development of cor pulmonale. We intended to clarify the factors promoting
progress of cor pulmonale.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Diagnosis of cor pulmonale was
done using echocardiogram and ECG. Patients with cor pulmonale who have been
examined with right side catheterization were analyzed. Patients were divided
into two groups according to their survival periods. a) surviving group: patients
who survived more than 18 month after right side catheterization. b)
non-surviving group: patients who died within 18 month after right side
catheterization. Analyzed items were as follows; grade of Hugh-Jones dyspnea
criteria, grade of obesity, arterial blood O2 and CO2, pulmonary function,
echocardiogram and right side catheterization finding.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Grade of obesity, PaO2, Stroke volume index were
significantly higher in surviving group than in non-surviving group. Hugh-Jones
grade, RPEP/RET and Pcw were significantly higher in non-surviving group than in 
surviving group. PaCO2, %FVC, FEV1.0%, RVth, %FS, PPA and PVR showed no
difference between the two groups. Multifactorial analysis was performed and the 
following discrimination function was obtained: Z = 3.34 (H-J degrees) + (-0.44) 
(obesity %) + (-0.57) (PaO2 torr) + 0.04 (%VC) + 67.95 (RPEP/RET) + (-0.8) (PAP) 
+ 0.61 (SVl) + 0.9 (PCW) + 0.03 (PVR) + (-0.9) (LVDdi) + 24.83.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2615135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Neth J Surg. 1989 Dec;41(6):136-9.

A comparison between Marlex and resection rectopexy.

Duthie GS(1), Bartolo DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Bristol Royal Infirmary, England.

The role of sphincter recovery, and postoperative constipation in the recovery of
continence after both anterior and posterior Marlex rectopexy (APR) and resection
and rectopexy (RR) has been investigated. Neither bowel frequency or straining at
stool, nor incomplete emptying is significantly altered in either group although 
emptying is improved overall. Upper anal canal electrosensitivity is reduced
postoperatively (APR 18 mA preoperatively vs. 13 postoperatively [n.s.], RR 15
vs. 13) as is the volume for appreciation of rectal filling (APR 77.5 ml
preoperatively vs. 50 postoperatively, RR 55 ml vs 32.5).CONCLUSION: Continence
postoperatively does not directly depend on sphincter recovery or postoperative
constipation. Improved anorectal sensation may be an important factor in
postoperative improvement.

PMID: 2616018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nichidai Koko Kagaku. 1989 Dec;15(4):409-22.

[Influence of sucrose on aspirin ulcer].

[Article in Japanese]

Okuma K, Fujii A.

At the present stage of drug interactions, little has been studied on food-drug
interactions. Excess intake of sucrose is well known to cause arteriosclerosis,
obesity, diabetes mellitus, toxicity to blood cells, dental caries, and
accumulations of metabolic products in blood. Under the such conditions, it is
possible that the ulcerogenic drugs, such as synthetic anti-inflammatory drugs,
may cause severe gastric lesions by oral administration. The present
investigation was undertaken to study the influences of sucrose on the gastric
lesions induced by aspirin (aspirin ulcer) in rats maintained with 10% sucrose
solution. Thus, the effect of sucrose on aggressive and protective factors,
proposed by Shay and Sun, was studied.METHOD: Sixty rats were maintained with 10%
sucrose solution ad libitum as drinking solution for 4 weeks (10% sucrose group).
As control, purified water was given ad libitum to 60 rats (control group). Rats 
were starved for 24 hours, but allowed free access of water before the
experiment, and then were subjected to the following experiments: (1) Twenty rats
from each group were treated to prepare pylorus-ligated rats. Aspirin in 1% CMC
(100mg/kg body-weight) was given in 10 rats from each group immediately after the
ligation. Gastric juice excreted during 6 hours was collected and its supernatant
(1,500 x g) was used for determinations of pH, acidity, acid output, pepsin
activity, and pepsin output. Aspirin and salicylic acid contents in gastric juice
were also determined by HPLC. (2) The mucosa of the stomach of (1) were subjected
to the analysis of hexosamine. Twenty rats from each group without
pylorus-ligation were also used for the analysis. Among them, 10 rats from each
group were given aspirin in 1% CMC with the dose of 300 mg/kg body-weight. (3)
Ten rats from each group were given aspirin with the dose of 300 mg/kg
body-weight and the stomach (n = 10 for each group) was extracted 30 minutes
after the aspirin administration for histochemical study to obtain covering mucus
index, epitherial mucus index, total mucus index, and rate of mucous injury. (4) 
Aspirin in 1% CMC was given to 10 rats of each group with the dose of 300 mg/kg
body-weight. Rats were sacrificed 6 hours after the administration of aspirin,
and then stomachs were extracted and treated with 10% neutral formalin. The
length of lesions was measured under a microscope (x 10), and then Ulcer Index
was obtained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2489809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. No Shinkei Geka. 1989 Dec;17(12):1119-24.

[Prognostic estimation of cerebral arterio-venous difference of oxygen content
(c-AVDO2) on severe head injury patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeuchi T.

Author information: 
Neurosurgical Department, Municipal Higashimatsuyama Hospital.

Cerebral arterio-venous difference in oxygen content (c-AVDO2) was calculated in 
10 patients suffering from severe head injury with brain contusion as the chief
morbid condition [consciousness on admission: under 10 on the Glasgow Coma Scale 
(GCS); 5 survived and 5 died), in order to re-evaluate the importance of c-AVDO2 
as a factor of prognosis evaluation in patients with severe head injury.
Indwelling catheters were placed in the femoral artery and jugular vein on the
side of the brain contusion in all patients on admission, and blood samples were 
collected when necessary for calculation of c-AVDO2. Whenever blood samples were 
collected, GCS-based evaluation of consciousness and determination of auditory
brainstem response (ABR) (a V-wave latency period of 5.67 + 0.40 msec. or more
was considered to indicate prolongation) were performed. In 6 patients (2
survived and 4 died) who underwent monitoring of epidural pressure (EDP), this
was confirmed on blood sample collection. c-AVDO2 was (1) compared between
patients who survived and those who died, and studied in terms of (2)
consciousness, (3) ABR and (4) EDP.RESULTS: (1) c-AVDO2 was 8.23 +/- 0.78 ml% in 
patients who survived and 4.94 +/- 0.71 ml% in those who died. (2) c-AVDO2 in
patients with GCS values of 15-11, 10-7, and 6-3 was 7.85 +/- 1.41 ml%, 7.70 +/- 
1.53 ml% and 5.09 +/- 1.27 ml%, respectively. (3) c-AVDO2 when the V-wave latency
periods of ABR were less than 6.07 msec. and greater than or equal to 6.07 msec. 
was 7.13 +/- 1.74 ml% and 6.51 +/- 2.29 ml%, respectively, and when the latency
disappeared c-AVDO2 was 3.74 +/- 0.62 ml%. (4) c-AVDO2 at EDP values of 10-40
mmHg, 41-70 mmHg and 71 mmHg or more was 6.99 +/- 1.53 ml%, 6.23 +/- 2.36 ml% and
4.15 +/- 0.35 ml%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) The c-AVDO2 in the patients who died was significantly lower
than that in the patients who survived. (2) All of the patients who showed a
c-AVDO2 of 5 ml% or less at least once dies, suggesting that the critical point
of poor absolute prognosis is 5 ml%.

PMID: 2615894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Paraplegia. 1989 Dec;27(6):432-9.

The contribution of the three columns of the spine to spinal stability: a
biomechanical model.

Haher TR(1), Tozzi JM, Lospinuso MF, Devlin V, O'Brien M, Tenant R, Ahmad J,
Valenza J, Parrish S.

Author information: 
(1)SUNY-HSC, Brooklyn, New York.

The load carrying capacity (LCC) of the human spine was evaluated in 10 human
cadaver spines. The specimens consisted of segments from T11 to S1 with markers
placed on the specimens at each vertebral level in both Ap and lateral planes.
The specimens were loaded to 1250 N and spinal deflections were recorded and
photographed at 125 N intervals during the loading cycle. In 5 specimens, axial
and flexion loads were applied to the intact spine. The anterior and middle
columns were destroyed in sequence at L2 and the loading process repeated. In the
remaining 5 specimens, axial and extension loads were applied with the spine
intact and after the posterior and middle columns were destroyed in sequence at
L2. Load deflection curves were generated for each test and comparisons were made
between intact spines and spines with single and double column
destruction.RESULTS: When the axis of loading was anterior to the posterior
longitudinal ligament (PLL), destruction of the anterior and middle columns
reduced the LCC by 46% and 68% respectively and destruction of the posterior and 
middle columns reduced the LCC by 30% and 63% respectively. There was minimal
change in the LCC when the axis of loading was posterior to the PLL and the
anterior and middle columns were destroyed. Two column destruction of the spine
reduced its load carrying capacity for flexion loads by 70%. In thoracolumbar
spinal fractures where flexion loads are predominant and anticipated, the authors
conclude that surgical stabilisation is indicated with double column failure.

PMID: 2608296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Dec;8(12):843-7.

[Silent ischemia in patients with previous myocardial infarct. Correlation of
Holter and coronarography].

[Article in Portuguese]

Carvalho M, da Cunha AC, Soares R, Carrageta M, Macieira-Coelho E.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to determine the presence of silent myocardial
ischemia and the degree of coronary obstructions.
DESIGN: Successively patients with myocardial infarction.
SETTING: Patients admitted to the coronary intensive care, later followed in a
specialised out-patients consultation.
PATIENTS: 62 patients with previous myocardial infarction.
INTERVENTIONS: All the patients were submitted to Holter-monitoring and coronary 
angiography.
RESULTS: Silent ischemia was present in 14 (22,6%) of the patients. Seven of
these (50%) had 3 vessels disease, 2 (14,3%) had 2 vessels disease, and 5 (35,7%)
had 1 vessel disease. Twelve of the patients (86%) had occlusive lesions (greater
than 90%), localised in 11 (79%) in the third proximal segment of the artery.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that the presence of silent myocardial ischemia
was predominantly associated with 3 vessels disease, and with lesions of more
than 90% of occlusion, localised in the 1/3 proximal of the vessel. Patients with
previous myocardial infarction and silent ischemia may belong to a subgroup with 
surgical indication. And so, Holter studies in these patients should be followed 
by angiographic studies for localization of the obstructive lesions.

PMID: 2631831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Dec;8(12):835-41.

[Thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarct. Experience at Santa Maria's Hospital].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pedro PG, Diogo AN, Correia LC, Costa JT, Pereirinha A, Araújo A, Ferreira R,
Amador MG, Ribeiro C, de Pádua F, et al.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the experience with i.v. streptokinase (SK) in the
treatment of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in two cardiac care units.
Conception: Retrospective analysis of patients (pts) admitted either to UCIM or
UTIC-AC with the diagnosis of AMI receiving SK.
PATIENTS: 77 pts were treated, although one of them was later proved to be a
false positive diagnosis of AMI. Of the other 76, there were 63 men and 13 women 
with age 55 +/- 12 (mean age +/- SD) years (limits of 20 and 82 years). AMIs were
anterior in 42% of the pts, inferior in 51%, anterior and inferior in 4% and non 
Q wave in 1%; Killip classes (cl) were: cl I in 64%, cl II in 26%, cl III in 5%
an cl IV in 5%. The time interval from the beginning of acute symptoms to the
arrival at the hospital was 2.8 +/- 1.2 hours (1 to 15) and from that moment to
administration of SK was 1.6 +/- 1.4 h. The whole interval to the administration 
of SK was 4.4 +/- 2.5 h.
RESULTS: The 3 criteria of reperfusion (pain relief, ST changes resolution and
less than 18 h maximum CK rise) were present in 36% of the pts, 2 of the criteria
in 21%, and 41% of the pts had only one or no criteria. The time interval to the 
administration of SK in these 3 groups was 3.3 +/- 1.3 h, 4.8 +/- 3.1 h and 5.0
+/- 2.5 h respectively. Non fatal complications occurred in 16% of the pts (major
bleeding in 2.6%, minor bleeding in 99% and minor anafilaxy in 4%. Mortality was 
11.8% (9 pts). Two thirds of the deaths were due to cardiac rupture. In hospital 
residual ischemia was present in 9% (7 pts).
CONCLUSION: Treatment of AMI with i.v. SK proved to be a safe and easy to apply
therapeutic option, carrying a low morbidity and mortality, lower than that
normally observed in our hospital with the conventional approach of AMI before
the era of thrombolysis.

PMID: 2631830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Dec;89(12):1819-47.

[Histopathological study of experimental periodontitis in rats--ultrastructures, 
permeability, immunohistochemistry, and morphometric analysis in both pocket and 
long junctional epithelial].

[Article in Japanese]

Abiko Y.

To elucidate the biological characteristics of both pocket and long junctional
epithelia in experimental periodontitis, elastic rubber was inserted between the 
first and second molars of the left maxilla in rats. The rubber was removed after
a week. An immunohistochemical study using anti-laminin and permeability
experiments using peroxidase were conducted; examinations were made of
ultrastructures and lanthanum; and a morphometric analysis was made of the
distribution of capillaries immediately below the epithelium.RESULTS: 1.
Periodontal pockets formed from 5 days to 2 weeks after removal of the rubber.
The long junctional epithelium was appearent from the fourth week after removal. 
Immunohistochemical study showed that laminin was located at the internal and
external basal laminae in the long junctional epithelium but not on the surface
of the pocket epithelium. 2. Electron microscopy showed the pocket epithelium to 
consist of flattened cells aligned parallel to the tooth surface in the coronal
portion. The epithelium, which included numerous vacuoles, manifested especially 
wide intercellular spaces in which a large number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes
were evident. Bacteria surrounded by neutrophils could be seen on the surface of 
the cementum in the pocket. Invading neutrophils split the epithelium at the
central portion of the pocket. In the apical portion, the epithelium formed
spindles that adhered to the cementum by means of half-desmosomes. Many
neutrophils and fenestrated capillaries were observed in connective tissue
immediately below the epithelium. 3. The long junctional epithelium consisted of 
2 or 3 cell layers aligned parallel to the tooth surface. Intercellular spaces in
the long junctional epithelium were as wide as those in the pocket epithelium and
contained a small number of lymphocytes and a few neutrophils. Half-desmosomes
were detected between the epithelial cells and the cementum. From the central to 
the apical region, epithelial tissues assumed a knife-edge form. Desmosomes and
gap junctions occurred among these cells. Dense granules containing a limiting
membrane and homogeneous electron-dense material were observed int he peripheral 
cytoplasm. Although fibroblasts aligned parallel to the epithelium occurred in
them, few collagen fibers, inflammatory cells and capillaries were to be
recognized in the connective tissue. 4. Permeability experiments in the pocket
and the long junctional epithelium produced analogous results. Light microscopy
showed that, in both epithelia, peroxidase penetrated into intercellular spaces
and leaked into the pocket. Electron microscopy showed that, as an electron-dense
material, lanthanum was detected in intercellular spaces and connective
tissues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2488980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Dec;89(12):1801-17.

[Electromyographic study of masticatory dysfunction in patients with unilateral
cleft lip and palate and reversed occlusion].

[Article in Japanese]

Kodachi K.

Masticatory dysfunction in patients with unilateral cleft lip and palate was
studied on the basis of electromyograms of the masticatory muscles. The purpose
of the study was to elucidate the origin of the dysfunction by means of
comparisons among electromyograms of masticatory muscles in cases of normal
occlusion, reversed occlusion and reversed occlusion caused by unilateral cleft
lip and palate. Subjects were 10 cases of normal occlusion (10y2m-11y10m), 10
cases of reversed occlusion (7y2m-11y2m) and 20 cases of unilateral cleft lip and
palate (8y0m-14y3m). In each subject, electromyograms of the masseter and
anterior venters of the temporal muscles at the isometric-contraction phase were 
recorded by means of the surface-electrode method with mandible loads of 1-5 kg. 
The electromyograms were analyzed quantitatively by means of an electromyographic
device called a Turn Counter. Relations between loads and amplitude as well as
numbers of turns were examined. At the same time maximum masticatory pressure and
occlusal contact points were measured and then examined in comparison with
electromyographic findings.RESULTS: 1. Correlation coefficients between loads and
amplitudes as well as numbers of turns decreased among the groups in this order: 
normal occlusion, reversed occlusion and cleft-caused reversed occlusion.
Significant differences were observed between the normal-occlusive group and the 
reversed and cleft-caused reversed-occlusive groups. 2. No. difference was
observed between the normal-occlusive and reversed-occlusive groups in terms of
correlation coefficients between total sums of amplitudes and turns of the 4
masseter muscles (right and left masseters and anterior venters of the temporal
muscles) and loads. Correlation coefficients in the cleft group were
significantly smaller than those in the other 2 groups. 3. Because of great
differences in regression coefficient among individuals, no synergic contraction 
pattern of the 4 mastication muscles (right and left masseter and temporal
muscles) could be specified. 4. The A/T ratio of masseters in the cleft group was
significantly smaller than those in the normal- and reversed-occlusive groups. 5.
Under maximum load, the activity ratio of the 4 masseter and temporal muscles was
1:1 in the normal- and reversed-occlusive groups, whereas temporal-muscle
activity predominated over masseter-muscle activity in the cleft group. 6.
Maximum masticatory pressure decreased in the order: normal-occlusive,
reversed-occlusive, and cleft caused occlusive. No correlation with
electromyographic findings was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2488979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Z Kardiol. 1989 Dec;78(12):764-70.

[Assessment of the severity of mitral valve insufficiency using color Doppler
echocardiography].

[Article in German]

Becher H(1), Mintert C, Grube E, Lüderitz B.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Universitäts-Poliklinik, Bonn.

To evaluate different methods for quantification, 55 adult patients with mitral
insufficiency were investigated by Doppler color flow mapping (CFM). The maximal 
area, length and width of the regurgitant jet were determined using apical
windows and these were then related to the angiographic findings (Sellers I-IV). 
In 11/55 patients reliable tracing of the regurgitant flow was not possible
because of drop-outs and impaired signal-to-noise ratio. With none of the three
systems was a reliable differentiation of moderate to severe forms of mitral
incompetence possible because of wide overlapping of the CFM-values in the four
angiographic classes. Relating the CFM-values to the diameter or area of the left
atrium did not improve the correlations with the angiographic data. At best, the 
measurement of the maximal area allowed an approximate estimation of the degree
of insufficiency: values greater than 6.5 cm2 were not found in patients with
Sellers class I or II. Results below this limit could be found in all four
angiographic classes. The variability for the estimation of the maximum area
(linear regression analysis) was r = 0.96, SEE = 0.07 (intraobserver) and r =
0.94, SEE = 0.08 (interobserver).CONCLUSION: CFM is not a reliable method for
classification of mitral regurgitation.

PMID: 2623918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 1989 Dec;9(12):728-30, 709.

[Short-term curative effects of daoyin-tuna qigong therapy in 103 cases of
chronic atrophic gastritis].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng YZ.

Daoyin-Tuna Qigong therapy was applied to 103 cases with chronic atrophic
gastritis (CAG). The average duration of disease was 7.8 years. Daoyin-Tuna
Qigong exercises were done 4 times a day, 1 hour each time. 79 days made a course
and no drug was given. 31 cases were checked with gastroscopy and biopsy, 30
cases with electrogastrogram and 34 cases with immunity detection before and
after treatment course.RESULTS: In clinical symptoms, the therapy appeared
markedly effective in 72 cases (69.9%). The effective cases were 28 (27.2%). The 
total effective rate was 97.1%. The body weight of 95 cases (92.2%) increased by 
2.4 +/- 1.3 kg on the average at the end of the treatment course, and the
capacity for eating was increased by 110 +/- 70 g a day in 99 cases (96.1%). In
gastroscopy and pathology examination, the rates of marked effectiveness were
35.5% and 48.4%, the effective 29.0% and 38.7%, the total effective 64.5% and
87.1% respectively. Electrogastrogram check: the frequency and amplitude of the
electrogastrogram increased markedly (P less than 0.05) in comparison with the
pre-therapy. Immunology examination: E-rosette was 51.3 +/- 8.4% before treatment
and 55.3 +/- 7.7% after treatment (P less than 0.05). It is suggested that
Daoyin-Tuna Qigong therapy would be a better and new treatment for CAG.

PMID: 2624988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 1989 Dec;17(6):350-1, 382-3.

[Right ventricular volumes and ejection fraction estimated by two-dimensional
echocardiography].

[Article in Chinese]

Cui W, Du BJ, Wang YF.

The right ventricular volumes and ejection fraction (RVEF) obtained from
two-dimensional echocardiography and from right ventricular angiography were
compared in 20 patients with congenital heart disease. Single plane area-length
method of apical four-chamber view was used to estimate echocardiographic right
ventricular volumes and single plane right anterior oblique projection was used
to calculate angiographic right ventricular volumes. The results showed that
right ventricular volumes estimated by echocardiography correlated highly with
that calculated by angiography, the correlation coefficients of end-diastolic
volume, end-systolic volume and stroke volume were 0.983, 0.976, 0.973
respectively. Echocardiographic RVEF also correlated strongly with angiographic
RVEF (r = 0.992, P less than 0.001), and there were no significant difference
between the two methods (P greater than 0.05).CONCLUSION: two-dimensional
echocardiography can be used to accurately estimate right ventricular volumes and
ejection fraction.

PMID: 2637131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1989 Dec;69(12):684-6, 48.

[Identification of congenital cardiac malformation and in utero arrhythmia by
fetal echocardiography].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu WL.

M-mode, 2D and Pulsed Doppler Echocardiography were performed on 111 fetuses of
high-risk pregnancies. Fetal gestation ages ranged 16-41 weeks. Six congenital
cardiac diseases were detected in utero and confirmed at autopsy in 4 cases, and 
one by Pulsed Doppler Echocardiography after delivery. These included a
rhabdomyoma, an endocardial fibroelastosis with hydrops, a pulmonary stenosis
with tricuspid regurgitation, a VSD, a VSD with descending aortic stenosis, an AV
canal defect with single atrium and single AV valve with regurgitation.
Arrhythmia was diagnosed in 23 fetuses, 9 had transient sinus bradycardia, 8 had 
premature atrial contraction, 2 had premature ventricular contraction which
disappeared after birth, 4 had sustained sinus bradycardia, one of them combined 
PVC occurring in bigeminy and trigeminy, which continued after birth. These 4
fetuses had congenital heart disease.CONCLUSION: (1) 2 DE and PDE are the most
valuable non-invasive technique for detection of fetal structural cardiac
abnormalities. (2) M-mode and PDE make correct rhythm diagnosis in fetus. (3) The
fetus with transient sinus bradycardia or PAC usually has a favorable prognosis. 
Sustained bradycardia has a more ominous prognosis, particularly if associated
with heart abnormalities. (4) Fetal hydrops may associate with congestive cardiac
failure in uterus. The incidence of cardiac disease is high in hydrops.

PMID: 2630016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1319-22.

Different lengths of treatment with co-trimoxazole for acute uncomplicated
urinary tract infections in women.

Trienekens TA(1), Stobberingh EE, Winkens RA, Houben AW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Limburg, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 27;300(6719):263.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare three days' and seven days' treatment with
co-trimoxazole in women with acute dysuria, strangury, and urinary frequency or
urgency.
DESIGN: Randomised double blind placebo controlled trial.
SETTING: General practices in the south east of The Netherlands.
PATIENTS: 327 Non-pregnant female patients aged 12 to 65.
INTERVENTION: 161 Women were allocated to three days' treatment (co-trimoxazole
960 mg twice a day), and 166 women were allocated to seven days' treatment
(co-trimoxazole 960 mg twice a day).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Resolution of symptoms at one, two, and six weeks.
RESULTS: The rates for resolution of symptoms were not significantly different
between the two groups. Cumulative rates of recurrence after three days' and
seven days' treatment were 31/139 (22%) and 23/151 (15%) respectively six weeks
after entry (p = 0.16). Adverse effects occurred in a quarter of women given
three days' treatment compared with a third of women receiving seven days'
treatment (p = 0.29). In only two patients did adverse effects necessitate
stopping treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Three days of co-trimoxazole seems to be as effective as a seven
days' course for treating acute urinary tract infection in non-pregnant women.

PMCID: PMC1838181
PMID: 2513939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1312-5.

Neuropathology of HIV infection in haemophiliacs: comparative necropsy study.

Esiri MM(1), Scaravilli F, Millard PR, Harcourt-Webster JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford.

OBJECTIVE: To discover whether pathological and neuropathological findings at
necropsy are different in haemophiliacs and other subjects positive for HIV.
DESIGN: Pathological and neuropathological findings at necropsy were compared in 
haemophiliacs and non-haemophiliacs, most of them homosexual men.
SETTING: Necropsies performed in the south of England.
SUBJECTS: 11 Haemophiliacs (mean age 41, range 15-69) and 31 non-haemophiliacs,
29 of whom were homosexual men (mean age 40, range 21-60). AIDS was diagnosed
before death in four haemophiliacs and all but one of the non-haemophiliacs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of various forms of neuropathology and systemic
pathology in the haemophiliacs and non-haemophiliacs, compared with Fisher's
exact test.
RESULTS: The prevalences of opportunistic infections of the central nervous
system were significantly higher in the non-haemophiliacs (cerebral toxoplasmosis
23% (7), progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy 10% (3), and cerebral
cytomegalovirus infection 19% (6) in the non-haemophiliacs v no cases in the
haemophiliacs). The prevalences of fresh and old intracranial haemorrhages and
cirrhosis of the liver were significantly higher in the haemophiliacs (fresh
intracranial haemorrhage 45% (5), old intracranial haemorrhage 36% (4), and
cirrhosis of the liver 27% (3) in the haemophiliacs v no cases in the
non-haemophiliacs). The prevalence of neuropathological changes in the
non-haemophiliacs was similar to that found in other necropsy series.
CONCLUSIONS: The main causes of death in haemophiliacs positive for HIV included 
intracranial haemorrhage and cirrhosis of the liver. The haemophiliacs died when 
the characteristic neuropathological changes associated with HIV infection were
at a fairly early stage in their development.

PMCID: PMC1838203
PMID: 2513933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1308-9.

Needle aspiration of amoebic liver abscess.

Sharma MP(1), Rai RR, Acharya SK, Ray JC, Tandon BN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of needle aspiration in uncomplicated amoebic
liver abscess.
DESIGN: Randomised case-control study with a minimum follow up of one year,
comparing patients treated with drugs alone with those treated with additional
needle aspiration.
SETTING: Referral based gastroenterology clinic.
PATIENTS: 39 Consecutive patients with amoebic liver abscess in the right lobe,
of whom 37 completed the study.
INTERVENTION: Metronidazole 2.4 g/day was given to all patients for 10 days.
Needle aspiration of the abscess was performed in 19 patients on the day of
admission to hospital.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Abdominal pain, fever, anorexia, and hepatomegaly were
measured. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate, serum aspartate, and alanine
aminotransferase activities, and alkaline phosphatase activity were also
measured.
RESULTS: Clinical improvement was similar in both groups of patients. Improvement
in haematological and biochemical variables and rates of healing of cavities were
also similar.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemotherapy with potent tissue amoebicidal drugs such as
metronidazole is optimally effective in treating amoebic liver abscess, and in
uncomplicated cases routine aspiration is not required.

PMCID: PMC1838188
PMID: 2513931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1253-7.

Negative extrathoracic pressure in treatment of respiratory failure in infants
and young children.

Samuels MP(1), Southall DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, National Heart and Lung Institute, Brompton Hospital, 
London.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of a newly developed system for applying
continuous or intermittent negative (subatmospheric) extrathoracic pressure in
respiratory failure.
DESIGN: Uncontrolled clinical trials in infants deteriorating or failing to
improve despite standard medical treatment.
SETTING: Paediatric and neonatal intensive care units and paediatric wards.
PATIENTS: 88 Infants and young children aged 1 day to 2 years with respiratory
failure due to bronchopulmonary dysplasia, the neonatal respiratory distress
syndrome, bronchiolitis, myopathy, the congenital hypoventilation syndrome,
pneumonitis, and postoperative phrenic nerve palsy. At the start of treatment 59 
were receiving greater than or equal to 50% inspired oxygen and 40 positive
airway pressure ventilation.
INTERVENTION: Treatment was provided within purpose built Perspex chambers of
appropriate size. The chamber incorporated safe and effective latex neck seals;
facilities for access, monitoring, and observation; and a heater to control the
ambient air temperature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Inspired oxygen concentration and carbon dioxide pressure 
before application of negative extrathoracic pressure and two and 48 hours
afterwards; duration of treatment; and final outcome (discharge home or death).
RESULTS: While arterial oxygen saturation was maintained at constant values 75
infants showed reductions in inspired oxygen concentrations (range 4-50%, median 
15%) two hours after starting treatment and 74 showed reductions at 48 hours
(2-79%, median 20%). Of 59 infants who had carbon dioxide pressure measured
before and after starting negative extrathoracic pressure, 21 showed a reduction 
(range 0.6-8.9 kPa, median 2.0), 30 no change (+/- 0.5 kPa), and eight a rise
(range 0.6-5.1 kPa, median 2.1). In 28 patients extubation was facilitated, 54
patients were discharged home, where six continued treatment, and 34 died.
Treatments lasted for between two and 236 days (median 13 days).
CONCLUSION: Negative pressure respiratory support is a non-invasive yet effective
treatment for respiratory failure. It may avoid the need for intubation, reduce
the pathophysiological consequences of positive airway pressure ventilation, and 
aid extubation.

PMCID: PMC1838133
PMID: 2513900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1247-50.

Aspirin use and chronic diseases: a cohort study of the elderly.

Paganini-Hill A(1), Chao A, Ross RK, Henderson BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California School of
Medicine, Los Angeles 90033-0800.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 13;300(6717):116-8.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the associations between the use of aspirin and the
incidences of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and other chronic diseases.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire survey to elicit details of aspirin use.
SETTING: Californian retirement community.
SUBJECTS: All 22,781 residents of the community (white, affluent, and well
educated) were sent a questionnaire that included questions on medical history
and the use of drugs such as analgesics, laxatives, and vitamin supplements. In
all 61% responded (13,987, 8881 women and 5106 men; median age 73). They formed
the cohort that was followed up for 6 1/2 years using discharge summaries from
three hospitals serving the area and death certificates from the health
department. Only 13 respondents were lost to follow up but seemed not to have
died.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidences of cardiovascular diseases, cancers,
gastrointestinal bleeding, ulcers, and cataracts were compared in participants
who did and did not take aspirin daily.
RESULTS: Age adjusted incidences were computed with an internal standard and five
age groups. By 1 January 1988 there had been 25 incident cases of kidney cancer
among all participants; 341 incident cases of stroke, 253 of acute myocardial
infarction, 220 of ischaemic heart disease, and 317 of other heart disease were
reported among respondents without a reported history of angina, myocardial
infarction, or stroke. The incidence of kidney cancer was raised among those who 
took aspirin daily compared with those who did not take it, although the increase
was significant only in men (relative risks = 6.3, 95% confidence interval 2.2 to
17, for men and 2.1, 0.53 to 8.5, for women). Those who took aspirin daily showed
no increased risk of any other cancer, except colon cancer for both sexes
combined (relative risk = 1.5, 1.1 to 2.2). The risk of acute myocardial
infarction was reduced slightly among regular users of aspirin in men but not
women. The risk of ischaemic heart disease was almost doubled in those who took
aspirin daily compared with non-users (relative risks = 1.9, 1.1 to 3.1, for men 
and 1.7, 1.1 to 2.7, for women). Small, non-significant increased risks of stroke
were observed in both sexes.
CONCLUSION: The daily use of aspirin increased the risk of kidney cancer and
ischaemic heart disease.

PMCID: PMC1838122
PMID: 2513898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):807-12.

Increased serum levels of a parathyroid hormone-like protein in
malignancy-associated hypercalcemia.

Budayr AA(1), Nissenson RA, Klein RF, Pun KK, Clark OH, Diep D, Arnaud CD,
Strewler GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Francisco, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To measure the serum levels of a newly described parathyroid
hormone-like protein (PLP) which was isolated from malignant tumors associated
with hypercalcemia, and determine whether PLP is a humoral factor in
malignancy-associated hypercalcemia.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study of serum levels of PLP using a newly developed
radioimmunoassay.
SETTING: A university-affiliated Veterans Administration hospital in San
Francisco, California, a University hospital in Hong Kong, and a private hospital
in Danville, Pennsylvania.
PATIENTS: Patients with hypercalcemia (calcium greater than 2.65 mmol/L) and a
diagnosis of malignancy were studied. Control groups included normocalcemic
patients with malignancy, patients with hyperparathyroidism, and normal subjects.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Serum immunoreactive PLP (iPLP) levels in normal
subjects were less than 2.5 pmol eq/L (10 pg/mL), and 68% of subjects had
undetectable levels. The serum concentration of iPLP was normal in 15 of 16
hypercalcemic patients with hyperparathyroidism. Serum iPLP was increased
(greater than 2.5 pmol eq/L) in 36 of 65 (55%) patients with
malignancy-associated hypercalcemia, with a mean value of 6.1 +/- 0.9 pmol eq/L
(24 pg/mL). In a subgroup of patients with solid tumors serum iPLP was increased 
in 30 (71%) of 42 hypercalcemic patients, with a mean value of 6.5 +/- 0.9 pmol
eq/L. Serum iPLP was elevated in only 3 of 23 normocalcemic patients with cancer.
In patients with solid malignancies (n = 59), levels of iPLP were positively
correlated with the total serum calcium (r = 0.43, P less than 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The data indicate a relation between the serum concentration of iPLP 
and the presence of hypercalcemia in solid malignancies. The results support a
role for PLP as a humoral mediator of hypercalcemia in most patients with solid
tumors. Measurement of iPLP should be useful in the differential diagnosis of
hypercalcemia.

PMID: 2817628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):788-96.

Chronic renal failure in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. A
population-based study in Rochester, Minnesota.

Humphrey LL(1), Ballard DJ, Frohnert PP, Chu CP, O'Fallon WM, Palumbo PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To identify the incidence of clinically defined chronic renal
failure by clinical type of diabetes in a community diabetic incidence cohort,
and to evaluate the relation between persistent proteinuria and chronic renal
failure in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
DESIGN: Retrospective incidence cohort study.
SETTING: Population-based in Rochester, Minnesota.
PATIENTS: Residents of Rochester, Minnesota, with diabetes initially diagnosed
between 1945 and 1979 who had follow-up to 1984 for clinically defined chronic
renal failure.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Among 1832 persons with non-insulin-dependent
diabetes who were initially free of chronic renal failure, 25 developed chronic
renal failure (incidence, 133 per 100,000 person-years: CI, 86 to 196). The
subsequent incidence of chronic renal failure among 136 insulin-dependent
diabetic Rochester residents, three of whom developed chronic renal failure, was 
170 per 100,000 person-years (CI, 35 to 497). After adjusting for potential
confounding factors, we found that the risk for chronic renal failure associated 
with the presence of persistent proteinuria at the time of the diagnosis of
non-insulin-dependent diabetes was increased 12-fold (hazard ratio, 12.1; CI, 4.3
to 34.0). When persistent proteinuria developed after the diagnosis of
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, the cumulative risk for chronic renal
failure 10 years after the diagnosis of persistent proteinuria was 11%.
CONCLUSIONS: These population-based data suggest that most cases of chronic renal
failure in diabetes occur in persons with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. These
data also identify the increased risk for chronic renal failure among persons
with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus who have persistent proteinuria
present at or developing after the diagnosis of non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus, such data may be useful for directing interventions to prevent or delay
the development of chronic renal failure.

PMID: 2817626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):783-7.

Cigarette smoking and increased central adiposity.

Barrett-Connor E(1), Khaw KT.

Author information: 
(1)University of California School of Medicine, La Jolla.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether cigarette smoking is associated with
central obesity in men and women.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey.
SETTING: A geographically defined population of older white adults.
PARTICIPANTS: Men (836) and women (1112) ages 50 to 79.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Waist-hip circumference ratio and body mass index 
(weight in kg/height in m2) were measured in participants wearing light clothing 
without shoes. Past and current cigarette smoking habits were ascertained by a
standard self-administered questionnaire. Cigarette smokers had higher waist-hip 
ratios than non-smokers. We observed a dose-response relation of increasing
waist-hip ratio with increasing number of cigarettes smoked. Although smokers
were leaner than nonsmokers, the increased waist-hip ratio in smokers was
independent of body mass index and was consistent within body-mass index
tertiles. The associations, seen in both sexes, were stronger in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Cigarette smokers have more central obesity than nonsmokers. These
results suggest that body fat distribution can be modified by behavioral factors 
such as smoking.

PMID: 2817625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):777-82.

The effect of oxygen on respiration and sleep in patients with congestive heart
failure.

Hanly PJ(1), Millar TW, Steljes DG, Baert R, Frais MA, Kryger MH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of supplemental oxygen on Cheyne-Stokes 
respiration, nocturnal oxygen saturation (SaO2), and sleep in male patients with 
severe, stable congestive heart failure.
DESIGN: Randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
SETTING: Patients referred from outpatient cardiology clinics of two teaching
hospitals.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of nine outpatients with severe, stable congestive
heart failure.
INTERVENTIONS: For each patient, sleep studies (after an adaptation night) from
two consecutive randomized nights were compared; one study was done while the
patient breathed compressed air and the other while the patient breathed oxygen
(O2). Compressed air and oxygen were both administered through nasal cannulae at 
2 to 3 L/min.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Cheyne-Stokes respiration, defined as periodic
breathing with apnea or hypopnea, was found in all patients. Low-flow oxygen
significantly reduced the duration of Cheyne-Stokes respiration (50.7% +/- 12.0% 
to 24.2% +/- 5.4% total sleep time), mainly during stage 1 NREM (non-rapid eye
movement) sleep (21.3% +/- 7.1% to 6.7% +/- 2.3% total sleep time) with no
significant change during stage 2 sleep, slow-wave sleep, or REM (rapid eye
movement) sleep. Although patients had normal SaO2 (96.0% +/- 1.7%) while awake, 
severe sleep hypoxemia was common; breathing oxygen reduced the amount of time
that SaO2 was less than 90% from 22.3% +/- 8.0% to 2.41% +/- 1.93% of total sleep
time. Sleep, disrupted to a variable extent in all patients, improved with oxygen
therapy: There was an increase in total sleep time from 275.3 min +/- 36.6 to
324.6 min +/- 23.3; a reduction in the proportion of stage 1 sleep (27.6% +/-
5.8% total sleep time to 15.2% +/- 2.6% total sleep time); and a reduction in the
number of arousals (30.4/h +/- 8.0 to 13.8/h +/- 1.9). The apnea-hypopnea index
was reduced from 30.0 +/- 4.7 to 18.9 +/- 2.4 with oxygen breathing.
CONCLUSION: In severe, stable congestive heart failure, nocturnal oxygen therapy 
reduces Cheyne-Stokes respiration, corrects hypoxemia, and consolidates sleep by 
reducing arousals caused by the hyperpneic phase of Cheyne-Stokes respiration.
Correction of nocturnal hypoxemia and sleep disruption may improve the clinical
status of these patients.

PMID: 2817624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):836-42.

Improving patient function: a randomized trial of functional disability
screening.

Rubenstein LV(1), Calkins DR, Young RT, Cleary PD, Fink A, Kosecoff J, Jette AM, 
Davies AR, Delbanco TL, Brook RH.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Los Angeles.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To test whether a 34-item functional status questionnaire
measuring physical, psychological, and social function can be used by physicians 
in practice to help improve their patients' outcomes.
DESIGN: Prospective randomized trial.
SETTING: Community internal medicine practices.
PATIENTS: Five hundred and ten continuing patients with functional disabilities
who saw their physicians at least four times a year. PHYSICIANS: Seventy-six UCLA
clinical volunteer faculty who are internists in community office practices.
INTERVENTIONS: Physicians and their patients were randomly assigned to the
experimental or the control group. Experimental group physicians attended a
2-hour multimedia educational session and received four functional status reports
on each of their study patients over a 1-year period. Control group physicians
received no education and no functional status feedback. Control group and
experimental group patients were tested for functional status with the functional
status questionnaire every 4 months for 1 year. Both groups also completed
monthly diaries that measured use of health services. Experimental group
physicians answered an anonymous evaluation questionnaire at 6 months after study
entry.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Forty-three percent of experimental group
physicians reported that they had used the functional status questionnaire to
change therapy. Ninety-five percent reported that it was useful and accurate.
Patient diaries did not show any difference between experimental group patients
and control group patients in number of medications used, visits to physicians or
other health professionals, equipment purchased, diet, or exercise programs.
There were no significant differences between experimental and control group
patients at exit from the study on any functional status or health outcome
measure.
CONCLUSION: A more powerful intervention than a 2-hour educational session and
the regular provision of functional status information is needed to help
office-based internists improve patient outcomes.

PMID: 2683917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):802-6.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a associated with cutaneous lichen
amyloidosis.

Gagel RF(1), Levy ML, Donovan DT, Alford BR, Wheeler T, Tschen JA.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, Houston, Texas.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 1;112(7):551-2.

PURPOSE: To describe and characterize the association of hereditary cutaneous
lichen amyloidosis with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a (MEN 2a).
DESIGN: Survey of a family for two diseases.
SETTING: Evaluation of patients at a clinical research center.
PATIENTS: Nineteen family members with MEN 2a.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In this family cutaneous lichen amyloidosis
presented as multiple infiltrated papules overlying a well-demarcated plaque in
the scapular area of the back (right or left). Immunohistochemical studies showed
amyloid that stained for keratin but not calcitonin. Three family members had the
characteristic skin lesion and also carried the gene for MEN 2a; two additional
members carried the gene for MEN 2a, but did not manifest the observable skin
changes associated with lichen amyloidosis.
CONCLUSIONS: From the findings in this kindred and in another recently reported
but unrelated family with an identical type of pruritic skin rash and MEN 2a,
several conclusions can be drawn. First, the syndrome of cutaneous amyloidosis
and MEN 2a is a clearly defined autosomal dominant hereditary syndrome. Second,
the dermal amyloid appears to be caused by deposition of keratin-like peptides
rather than by calcitonin-like peptides. Third, known families with hereditary
lichen amyloidosis should be screened to determine the true frequency of this
syndrome.

PMID: 2573304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):827-35.

Thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas: clinical and biochemical heterogeneity.
Case reports and follow-up of nine patients.

Gesundheit N(1), Petrick PA, Nissim M, Dahlberg PA, Doppman JL, Emerson CH,
Braverman LE, Oldfield EH, Weintraub BD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda,
Maryland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Feb 15;112(4):309.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical and biochemical features of patients
with TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone, thyrotropin)-secreting pituitary tumors;
to measure the biologic activity in vitro of circulating TSH from selected
patients before and after pituitary surgery.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: Patients in an endocrinology unit.
PATIENTS: Nine patients with TSH-secreting pituitary tumors.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients had hyperthyroidism, elevated free
thyroxine and triiodothyronine levels, and detected levels of TSH. The free alpha
subunit, a tumor marker for neoplasms of gonadotropic or thyrotropic cell origin,
was elevated in all nine patients. Seven of the nine patients had been treated
with thionamides, radioactive iodine, or thyroidectomy for presumed primary
hyperthyroidism. The delay from the initial treatment of hyperthyroidism to the
correct diagnosis of a pituitary neoplasm was 6.2 +/- 4.8 (mean +/- SD) years.
Two of the seven patients with macroadenomas died in the perioperative period
(one at NIH, one at a referring hospital). Of the remaining five patients with
macroadenomas, four have residual tumor and inappropriate TSH secretion, despite 
surgery and radiation therapy, at follow-up from 3.5 to 6 years. In contrast, the
two patients with microadenomas are clinically cured 2.5 and 4 years after
transsphenoidal adenomectomy. The biologic to immunologic (B/I) ratio of serum
TSH, determined preoperatively in five patients with TSH-secreting tumors, was
elevated compared with euthyroid subjects. In three patients the B/I ratio of
serum TSH was also measured after pituitary surgery; in two the elevated B/I
ratio returned to normal after successful pituitary adenomectomy, while in the
third this ratio remained elevated after incomplete adenoma resection.
CONCLUSIONS: With the routine availability of ultrasensitive TSH assays and their
increasing use to confirm thyrotoxicosis from all causes, we expect that
TSH-secreting pituitary tumors will be diagnosed earlier, before inappropriate
antithyroid therapy, permitting an improved outcome.

PMID: 2479309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1207-9.

Computer control of anticoagulant dose for therapeutic management.

Ryan PJ(1), Gilbert M, Rose PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, South Warwickshire Hospital, Warwick.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1529.

OBJECTIVE: To improve the standard of managing anticoagulant treatment and
provide a basis for therapeutic quality control.
DESIGN: Implementation of a comprehensive computerised system for decision
support.
SETTING: Three anticoagulation clinics in South Warwickshire.
SUBJECTS: Patients in South Warwickshire receiving anticoagulant treatment from
September 1988 to March 1989.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: International normalised ratio was measured and recorded at
each visit.
RESULTS: 688 Patients' visits were analysed statistically, and a 38% improvement 
was achieved in the results of international normalised ratios falling within the
recommended therapeutic ranges of the British Society for Haematology.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of a computerised anticoagulation support system 
resulted in better management of patients. The system provides a basis for
uniform management of treatment and a common platform for national or
international trials.

PMCID: PMC1838076
PMID: 2513055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1202-3.

Effect of a late evening meal on nitrogen balance in patients with cirrhosis of
the liver.

Swart GR(1), Zillikens MC, van Vuure JK, van den Berg JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Dijkzigt, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether a late evening meal would improve nitrogen balance
in patients with cirrhosis of the liver.
DESIGN: Randomised crossover study of meal schedules comparing three meals a day 
with four or six meals a day, the four and six meal schedules both including a
late evening meal (2300).
SETTING: Metabolic ward.
PATIENTS: Seven men and two women aged 34-66 with cirrhosis of the liver (Child's
grade B).
INTERVENTIONS: Patients spent two seven day periods in the ward. For five days of
each period they received, in random order, isonitrogenous isocaloric diets
supplied in three meals a day and in four or six meals a day.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Nitrogen balance, calculated as the difference between
dietary intake and the total of urinary, faecal, and integumental nitrogen loss.
RESULTS: Faecal nitrogen loss was no different between three meals a day and four
or six meals a day. On both four and six meals a day, however, patients had
nitrogen balances that were more positive (or less negative) than on three meals 
a day (1.26 (SD 2.1) g/24 h v 0.26 (2.2) g/24 h, p less than 0.01). Six meals a
day did not produce significantly better improvements in nitrogen balance than
four meals a day.
CONCLUSIONS: A late evening meal seemed to improve the efficiency of nitrogen
metabolism, but longer term studies are needed to assess whether this leads to a 
better nutritional state.

PMCID: PMC1838097
PMID: 2513050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1193-7.

Organ donation from intensive care units in England.

Gore SM(1), Hinds CJ, Rutherford AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1463-4.
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1291-2.

OBJECTIVE: To audit all deaths in intensive care units (excepting coronary care
only and neonatal intensive care units) in England to assess potential for organ 
procurement.
DESIGN: An audit in which 14 regional health authorities and London special
health authorities each designated a regional liaison officer to identify
intensive care units and liaise with Department of Health and the Medical
Research Council's biostatistics unit in distribution, return, and checking of
audit forms. Audit took place from 1 January to 31 March 1989 and will continue
to 31 December 1990.
SETTING: 278 Intensive care units in England.
PARTICIPANTS: Colleagues in intensive care units (doctors, nurses, coordinators, 
and others), who completed serially numbered audit forms for all patients who
died in intensive care.
RESULTS: The estimated number of deaths in intensive care units was 3085, and
validated audit forms were received for 2853 deaths (92%). Brain stem death was a
possible diagnosis in only 407 (14%) patients (about 1700 cases a year) and was
confirmed in 282 (10%) patients (an estimated 1200 cases a year). Half the
patients (95% confidence interval 45% to 57%) in whom brain stem death was
confirmed became actual donors of solid organs. Tests for brain stem death were
not performed in 106 (26%) of 407 patients with brain stem death as a possible
diagnosis, and general medical contraindication to organ donation was recorded
for 48 (17%) of 282 patients who fulfilled brain stem death criteria before
cessation of heart beat. The criteria were fulfilled before cessation of heart
beat and in the absence of any general medical contraindication to organ donation
in 234 patients, 8% of those dying in intensive care (an estimated 1000 cases a
year). Consent for organ donation was given in 152 (70%) of 218 cases (64% to
76%) when the possibility of organ donation was suggested to relatives. In only
14 out of 232 families (6%; 3% to 9%) was there no discussion of organ donation
with relatives. Corneal suitability was recorded as "not known" in a high
proportion (1271; 45%) of all deaths and intensive care units reported only 123
corneal donors (4% of all audited deaths).
CONCLUSION: When brain stem death is a possible diagnosis tests should always be 
carried out for confirmation. Early referral to the transplant team or
coordinator should occur in all cases of brain stem death to check
contraindications to organ donation. There should be increased use of asystolic
kidney donation, and patients should be routinely assessed for suitability for
corneal donation. Finally, more publicity and education are necessary to promote 
consent.

PMCID: PMC1838079
PMID: 2513048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1187-92.

Calcium channel blockers in acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina: an
overview.

Held PH(1), Yusuf S, Furberg CD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Clinical Applications, National Heart, Lung and
Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 27;300(6719):259-60.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of calcium channel blockers on development of
infarcts, reinfarction, and mortality.
DESIGN: A systematic overview of all randomised trials of calcium channel
blockers in myocardial infarction and unstable angina.
PATIENTS: 19,000 Patients in 28 randomised trials.
RESULTS: In the trials of myocardial infarction 873 deaths occurred among 8870
patients randomised to active treatment compared with 825 deaths among 8889
control patients (odds ratio of 1.06, 95% confidence interval of 0.96 to 1.18).
There was no evidence of a beneficial effect on development and size of infarcts 
or rate of reinfarction. The results were similar in short term trials in which
treatment was confined to the acute phase and those in which treatment was
started some weeks later and continued for a year or two. There was no evidence
of heterogeneity among different calcium channel blockers in their effects on any
end point. The results were similar in the unstable angina trials (110 out of 561
patients treated with calcium channel blocker compared with 104 out of 548
controls developed a myocardial infarction; 14 out of 591 treated compared with
nine out of 578 controls died).
CONCLUSIONS: Calcium channel blockers do not reduce the risk of initial or
recurrent infarction or death when given routinely to patients with acute
myocardial infarction or unstable angina.

PMCID: PMC1838102
PMID: 2513047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. BMJ. 1989 Nov 4;299(6708):1131-4.

Incidence of peptic ulcer disease in Gothenburg, 1985.

Schöön IM(1), Mellström D, Odén A, Ytterberg BO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Ostra Sjukhuset, Gothenburg, Sweden.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1990 Oct 20;301(6757):906.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence and age distribution of peptic ulcer
disease in adults in Gothenburg.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of patients with symptoms over one year.
SETTING: All gastroenterology and x ray departments.
PATIENTS: Any patient found to have an active ulcer crater during 1985.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Sex, age, past history of gastrointestinal ulcers, and
smoking habit.
RESULTS: In 1985, 1402 peptic ulcers were diagnosed in 1137 adults. Over half
(403; 54%) of the ulcers in men and 393 (60%) ulcers in women were in patients
aged over 60. All types of ulcer showed increasing incidence with age. The sex
ratio of patients aged 40-50 with peptic ulcers was 1:1. Nearly half (109; 48%)
of ulcers diagnosed for the first time in men and 129 (57%) of such ulcers in
women were in patients aged over 60. Elderly men and women were also more likely 
to develop haemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: In Gothenburg there is a surprisingly high incidence of peptic ulcer
disease, which increases considerably with age, possibly explained by the
availability of modern diagnostic techniques as 1121 (80%) ulcers had been
diagnosed by gastroscopy. Compared with earlier studies there was no difference
in the incidence between men and women aged 40-50.

PMCID: PMC1837999
PMID: 2513019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. BMJ. 1989 Nov 4;299(6708):1127-31.

Impact of cardiovascular risk factors on coronary heart disease and mortality
among middle aged diabetic men: a general population study.

Rosengren A(1), Welin L, Tsipogianni A, Wilhelmsen L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Ostra Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of cardiovascular risk factors on coronary
heart disease and all cause mortality in middle aged diabetic men.
DESIGN: Prospective population study based on data collected from second
screening (from 1974 to 1977) in the multifactor primary prevention trial and
follow up until March 1983.
SETTING: Gothenburg, Sweden.
SUBJECTS: 6897 Men aged 51 to 59, of whom 232 were self reported diabetics and
6665 were non-diabetic; none had a history of myocardial infarction.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidences of coronary heart disease and mortality from
all causes.
RESULTS: Diabetic men with a serum cholesterol concentration greater than 7.3
mmol/l had a significantly higher incidence of coronary heart disease during
follow up than those with a concentration less than or equal to 5.5 mmol/l (28.3%
v 5.4%; p = 0.020); corresponding figures for non-diabetic men were 9.4% and 2.4%
respectively. In multivariate logistic regression analyses serum cholesterol
concentration and smoking habit were independent predictors of coronary heart
disease (odds ratio serum cholesterol concentration 6.1 (95% confidence interval 
2.1 to 17.6) current smoking 2.9 (1.1 to 7.5)) and of all cause mortality (3.2
(1.3 to 7.9), 3.0 (1.4 to 6.7) respectively) in diabetic men whereas systolic
blood pressure, body mass index, family history, marital state, and alcohol abuse
were not. Low occupational class was an independent predictor of mortality (2.4
(1.01 to 5.5)), but not of coronary heart disease, in diabetic men.
CONCLUSIONS: Middle aged diabetic men with hypercholesterolaemia are at very high
risk of developing coronary heart disease and of dying prematurely. Lowering
serum cholesterol concentration in such subjects seems to be warranted.

PMCID: PMC1837993
PMID: 2513018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Nov;121(5):633-7.

Adrenal function in HIV infected patients.

Verges B(1), Chavanet P, Desgres J, Vaillant G, Waldner A, Brun JM, Putelat R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Hôpital du Bocage, University of Dijon, France.

Since anatomopathological lesions of the adrenal gland have been frequently
observed at autopsy in AIDS, we investigated the glucocorticoid function in 63
patients (51 men, 12 women) infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in
order to determine the incidence and the nature of any adrenocortical
abnormalities at various stages of HIV infection. The patients were classified
according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommendations into group II 
(asymptomatic; N = 13), group III (lymphadenopathy; N = 27) and group IV
(clinical manifestations; N = 23). Plasma ACTH and cortisol before and after an
exogenous ACTH stimulation test were measured in patients as in 30 age-matched
controls. Plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone before and after ACTH
stimulation were also measured in 31 patients (group II: 12; group III: 10; group
IV: 9). Compared with controls patients from group II-III had higher levels of
ACTH (39.11 +/- 17.01 vs 29.73 +/- 8.53 ng/l; p = 0.003) and basal cortisol (232 
+/- 91.2 vs 184.3 +/- 30.9 micrograms/l; p = 0.03). No significant differences
were noted between group IV patients and controls as to ACTH and basal and
stimulated cortisol levels. Among the 63 patients, only one from group IV had a
blunted cortisol response after ACTH stimulation test. Plasma renin activity, and
basal and stimulated aldosterone levels in the 3 groups of patients were not
different from control values.IN CONCLUSION: 1. Adrenal insufficiency does not
seem very frequent in group IV patients and is likely to be a late complication
in AIDS. 2. The increased ACTH and basal cortisol levels found in group II and
group III patients argue for an early dysregulation of the adrenocortical axis in
HIV infection. The exact physiopathological mechanism is not yet known, but an
enhanced CRH production by interleukin 1 and/or a direct role of the HIV envelope
glycoprotein (gp 120) may explain the high ACTH level in HIV patients.

PMID: 2555993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Am J Hypertens. 1989 Nov;2(11 Pt 2):278S-283S.

Effects of long-term antihypertensive treatment with tertatolol on diastolic
function in hypertensive patients with and without left ventricular hypertrophy.

Trimarco B(1), DeLuca N, Rosiello G, Ricciardelli B, Marchegiano R, Condorelli G,
Raponi M, Condorelli M.

Author information: 
(1)1a Clinica Medica, Università degli studi di Napoli, Italy.

We assessed the effects of long-term antihypertensive treatment with 5 mg
tertatolol, a noncardioselective beta-blocker, on left ventricular hypertrophy
(LVH) and diastolic function. Fifteen hypertensive patients were selected as good
responders to previous treatment with tertatolol (supine blood pressure less than
140/90 mm Hg). They were divided into 2 groups: group 1 with LVH (n = 6) and
group 2 without LVH (n = 9). After a one month wash-out period, all patients
received 5 mg tertatolol once daily. In case of uncontrolled blood pressure (BP),
the dose was doubled after 2 weeks in 10 patients. BP control was obtained in all
patients. M-mode echocardiography and Doppler-echocardiography were performed
under controlled conditions after BP normalization and after 6 months of
treatment. Long-term BP normalization significantly reduced left ventricular mass
index (LVMI) in group 1 (from 137 +/- 3 to 121 +/- 3 g/m2, P less than .01), but 
not in group 2 (from 120 +/- 3 to 114 +/- 4 g/m2, P = NS). After 2 weeks of
effective therapy, the ratio between early and late diastolic peak flow velocity 
across the mitral valve (E/A ratio), significantly increased in both groups (from
0.72 +/- 0.04 to 0.87 +/- 0.06 in group 1, P less than .05; and from 1.13 +/-
0.06 to 1.26 +/- 0.07 in group 2, P less than .05). After 6 months, together with
the reduction of LVMI, a further increase of E/A ratio was only observed in group
1 (to 1.30 +/- 0.12, P less than .05).IN CONCLUSION: (1) LVH contributes to left 
ventricular diastolic dysfunction in hypertensive patients since its reversal is 
able to improve diastolic filling, and (2) effective antihypertensive treatment
with tertatolol improves diastolic function independently from its effect on LV
mass.

PMID: 2573376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):558-61.

Graves' disease: an analysis of thyroid hormone levels and hyperthyroid signs and
symptoms.

Trzepacz PT(1), Klein I, Roberts M, Greenhouse J, Levey GS.

Author information: 
(1)Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh School of
Medicine, Pennsylvania 15213.

PURPOSE: Assessment of disease severity for patients with hyperthyroidism
involves clinical evaluation and laboratory testing. To determine if there is a
correlation between symptoms and thyroid function test results, we prospectively 
studied hyperthyroid patients using a standardized symptom rating scale and serum
thyroid function parameters.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined 25 patients with untreated, newly diagnosed
Graves' disease using the Hyperthyroid Symptom Scale (HSS) and serum levels of
thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3) relative insulin area (RIA), and estimates 
of free thyroxine index (FTI). In addition, we compared thyroid hormone levels
with standard measures of depression and anxiety in these patients.
RESULTS: When regression analyses controlling for age were performed, none of
these symptom ratings were associated with FTI or T3 RIA. The HSS was correlated 
with goiter size and anxiety ratings and was inversely correlated with age.
CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that there is no relationship between the 
clinical assessment of disease severity and serum levels of thyroid hormone in
untreated Graves' disease.

PMID: 2816972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):553-7.

Neuromuscular involvement in mild, asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism.

Turken SA(1), Cafferty M, Silverberg SJ, De La Cruz L, Cimino C, Lange DJ,
Lovelace RE, Bilezikian JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 
New York, New York 10032.

PURPOSE: The classic neuromuscular abnormalities of primary hyperparathyroidism
are based on observations from an earlier time when the disease presented
commonly with signs and symptoms. The purpose of the present study was to test
for neuromuscular abnormalities among patients currently seen with primary
hyperparathyroidism, in whom the vast majority are asymptomatic.
PATIENTS, METHODS, AND RESULTS: Forty-two patients (30 women, 12 men) were
studied. Serum calcium level was 11.1 +/- 0.1 mg/dL (normal, 8.7 to 10.7 mg/dL); 
phosphorus level was 2.8 +/- 0.1 mg/dL (normal, 2.5 to 4.5 mg/dL). Parathyroid
hormone levels by radioimmunoassay for N-terminal and for mid-molecule regions
were 32.6 +/- 2.4 pg/mL (normal, 8 to 24 pg/mL) and 831 +/- 127 pg/mL (normal, 50
to 330 pg/mL), respectively. Although generalized weakness and easy fatigability 
were common complaints, they were not seen on neurologic examination. No patient 
showed typical neuromuscular findings such as muscle weakness or atrophy,
hyperreflexia, abnormal gait, tongue fasciculations, or objective changes in
mental status. On the other hand, paresthesias and muscle cramps were reported by
22 patients (52%). Neurologic examination in 12 patients (29%) demonstrated
findings consisting of either stocking-glove loss of pain sensation or loss of
vibratory sensation with diminished reflexes. Creatine phosphokinase levels were 
normal in all patients. Electromyography and nerve conduction studies were
performed in nine patients. None showed myopathy or signs of motor unit
denervation. Isolated nerve abnormalities (n = 6) and nonspecific sensory
neuropathy (n = 2) were observed.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the classic neuromuscular syndrome of primary
hyperparathyroidism is rarely seen among a typical modern-day group of patients
with primary hyperparathyroidism. The results suggest that the neurologic
component of primary hyperparathyroidism should be included among those features 
of the disease that have changed along with other aspects of the clinical profile
of primary hyperparathyroidism.

PMID: 2816971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):547-52.

Risk factors for Amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity.

Fisher MA(1), Talbot GH, Maislin G, McKeon BP, Tynan KP, Strom BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia.

PURPOSE: A case-control study was performed to identify and quantify risk factors
for amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-five patients receiving intravenous amphotericin B
for treatment of proven or suspected fungal infection who developed
nephrotoxicity (greater than 100% increase in baseline serum creatinine to a
level above the normal range) were compared with 60 control patients receiving
amphotericin B who did not develop nephrotoxicity. Amphotericin B dosing
variables and other potential risk factors were analyzed in a logistic regression
model.
RESULTS: Cases of nephrotoxicity received a significantly higher average daily
dose of amphotericin B (0.49 +/- 0.18 mg/kg/day) than did controls (0.34 +/- 0.17
mg/kg/day). In a multivariate model, the risk of nephrotoxicity increased
3.7-fold for each 50-mg increase in total dose for a fixed duration of therapy
and patient weight. Risk decreased by a factor of 0.4 for each extra day of
therapy for a fixed total dose and weight. An increase in weight was also
protective when the two other dosage variables were held constant. Each 0.10
mg/kg/day dose increment was associated with a 1.8-fold (95% confidence interval,
1.2 to 2.7) increase in the risk of nephrotoxicity. Other significant risk
factors included diuretic use during amphotericin B therapy (12.5, 1.7 to 94.7), 
for which a linear dose-response relationship was demonstrated, and an abnormal
baseline serum creatinine level (15.4, 1.4 to 173.2).
CONCLUSION: Risk factors for amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity include
higher average daily doses (approximately a doubling for each 0.10 mg/kg/day
increment), diuretic use, and abnormal baseline renal function. These data
suggest possible protective interventions and will aid clinicians in assessing
the risk-benefit ratio of amphotericin B therapy for deep fungal infection.

PMID: 2816970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):540-6.

Antibiotic therapy for Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia: outcome correlations in
a prospective study of 200 patients.

Hilf M(1), Yu VL, Sharp J, Zuravleff JJ, Korvick JA, Muder RR.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Disease Section, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1991 Jan;90(1):134.
    Am J Med. 1991 Jan;90(1):135.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a prospective clinical study of
200 consecutive patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremias to analyze in
vitro susceptibility and synergistic testing of antibiotics the patients received
and clinical parameters to assess their relationship to survival.
RESULTS: No significant correlation between in vitro susceptibility testing
(minimal inhibitory concentrations/minimal bactericidal concentrations) and
outcome could be demonstrated. Similarly, improved outcome could not be
demonstrated for patients receiving antibiotic combinations that were synergistic
in vitro (either time-kill or checker-board) versus those combinations that were 
not. There was also no correlation between results obtained by time-kill curve
and checkerboard synergistic testing, i.e., combinations found to be synergistic 
by one method were not necessarily synergistic by the other method. Clinical
parameters associated with improved survival were a urinary portal of entry and
absence of neutropenia. Conversely, survival was significantly decreased when the
portal was the respiratory tract. The mortality rate between patients receiving
combination therapy (27%) and monotherapy (47%) was significant (p less than
0.02); this significant relationship held true for most subgroups including
malignancy, nosocomial infection, and infection site.
CONCLUSION: Increasing effort should be placed on ensuring timely administration 
of combination therapy to patients with P. aeruginosa bacteremia since the use of
combination therapy was even more important in determining outcome than was
underlying disease.

PMID: 2816969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):537-9.

Prevalence of cryptosporidiosis in patients undergoing endoscopy: evidence for an
asymptomatic carrier state.

Roberts WG(1), Green PH, Ma J, Carr M, Ginsberg AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (Gastroenterology) Columbia College of Physicians and
Surgeons, New York 10032.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Oct;89(4):545-6.
    Am J Med. 1990 Aug;89(2):252.

PURPOSE: We sought to determine the presence of the parasite cryptosporidium in
the duodenal aspirates of patients undergoing routine upper gastrointestinal
endoscopy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 169 patients undergoing upper
endoscopy or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. Immunocompromised
patients were not included in the study population. Samples were aspirated from
the second portion of the duodenum. Biopsy specimens were also obtained. Three
randomly passed stool samples were obtained from 75% of the patients who were
found to have cryptosporidium in the duodenum.
RESULTS: Overall, cryptosporidium oocysts were identified in 12.7% of patients.
There was no significant difference in the prevalence of the parasite in any
subgroup of procedure or symptom complex. Half of those (46.7%) with positive
aspirates had demonstrable cryptosporidium in stool samples, although none of the
patients had diarrhea. No patient had detectable cryptosporidium in biopsy
samples of the duodenum.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest a surprisingly high asymptomatic carrier rate
for cryptosporidium.

PMID: 2816968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):519-24.

Low-antigen-content diet in the treatment of patients with mixed
cryoglobulinemia.

Ferri C(1), Pietrogrande M, Cecchetti R, Tavoni A, Cefalo A, Buzzetti G, Vitali
C, Bombardieri S.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Patologia Medica I e Servizio di Reumatologia, Università di Pisa,
Italy.

PURPOSE: The effects of a low-antigen-content diet (LAC diet) versus a standard
normocaloric diet on the signs and symptoms of mixed cryoglobulinemia (MC) were
compared in a crossover randomized study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 24 outpatients with MC, and was
carried out in a 48-week period. After 18 weeks of either the LAC or the placebo 
diet, patients returned to a totally unrestricted diet for 12 weeks (washout
period) and crossed over to the second half of the study for the other 18 weeks.
RESULTS: After three weeks of the restricted LAC diet, the cryocrit decreased
from 3.5 +/- 3.4% (mean +/- SD) to 2.3 +/- 2.0% (p less than 0.01), and the
circulating immune complex levels decreased from 48 +/- 30% to 39 +/- 34% (p less
than 0.01). At the same time, the purpura score (p less than 0.05), glutamic
pyruvic transaminase level (p less than 0.01), and gamma glutamyl transferase
level (p less than 0.001) significantly improved. Splenic reticuloendothelial
function, measured as the half-life of heat-damaged autologous red cells,
decreased from 41 +/- 21 minutes to 21 +/- 10 minutes (p less than 0.005). In
contrast, no significant parallel clinical, biochemical, and immunologic changes 
occurred in the same patients during the placebo (standard normocaloric) diet.
CONCLUSION: These data show that an LAC diet decreases the amount of circulating 
immune complexes in MC and can modify certain signs and symptoms of the disease. 
These effects of the LAC diet may be explained by postulating a functional
restoration of the mononuclear phagocytic system.

PMID: 2816967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):511-8.

Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage in autologous bone marrow transplant recipients.

Robbins RA(1), Linder J, Stahl MG, Thompson AB 3rd, Haire W, Kessinger A,
Armitage JO, Arneson M, Woods G, Vaughan WP, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska, Omaha.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1991 Feb;90(2):278-81.

PURPOSE: The purpose of our work was to evaluate pulmonary complications in
autologous bone marrow transplant recipients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 141 consecutive autologous bone marrow
transplant recipients were evaluated. In 29 patients, a clinical syndrome
characterized by progressive dyspnea, hypoxia, cough, diffuse consolidation on
chest roentgenography, and characteristic bronchoalveolar lavage findings
developed over one to seven days.
RESULTS: In 29 patients, bronchoalveolar lavage performed by sequential
instillation and aspiration of 20-ml aliquots of normal saline resulted in
recovered lavage fluid that became progressively bloodier with each recovered
aliquot. Autopsy and bronchoalveolar lavage in these patients revealed no
pathogens that accounted for the clinical findings. Since the later aliquots
sample predominantly alveolar material, this syndrome was termed diffuse alveolar
hemorrhage (DAH). DAH was associated with a high inpatient mortality rate (23 of 
29 died versus 14 of 112 without DAH, p less than 0.001) and was associated with 
age over 40 years, solid malignancies, high fevers, severe mucositis, white blood
cell recovery, and renal insufficiency (p less than 0.05, compared with patients 
without DAH). However, DAH was not associated with prolonged prothrombin or
partial thromboplastin times or decreased platelet counts compared with patients 
without DAH.
CONCLUSION: DAH is a frequent cause of respiratory compromise and a major cause
of mortality in autologous bone marrow transplant recipients.

PMID: 2816966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):494-500.

Selecting the best triage rule for patients hospitalized with chest pain.

Weingarten SR(1), Ermann B, Riedinger MS, Shah PK, Ellrodt AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, U.C.L.A. School of Medicine 
90048.

PURPOSE: During an observational study, we investigated the potential benefits
and risks of the use of admission and early transfer triage rules in 498 patients
hospitalized with chest pain.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Appropriateness of triage decisions was measured using
explicit and implicit judgments.
RESULTS: Application of an admission triage rule (partially based on the Brush
electrocardiographic criteria) would have increased coronary care unit (CCU)
admissions by 3%, whereas application of a triage rule 24 hours after admission
would have reduced bed utilization by 860 intermediate care and 82 CCU bed-days
per year when compared with actual patient triage. Although 9.5% of patients who 
underwent triage according to the early transfer triage rule would have
experienced a minor complication after transfer, the medical care of none would
have been adversely affected.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that application of a triage rule 24 hours after
admission may have the potential to shorten length of stay in the CCU and
intermediate care unit without significantly compromising patient care. However, 
use of the admission triage rule would have increased CCU bed utilization. The
failure of the admission triage rule to improve bed utilization illustrates the
potential hazards of ignoring patient complications, interventions, and
co-morbidity when predicting the efficacy of a triage rule.

PMID: 2816965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):562-6.

Splenic enlargement and Traube's space: how useful is percussion?

Barkun AN(1), Camus M, Meagher T, Green L, Coupal L, De Stempel J, Grover SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Montreal General Hospital, Quebec, Canada.

PURPOSE: The utility of Traube's space percussion in the bedside assessment of
splenic enlargement was evaluated. The influence of meals and obesity on this
sign were also assessed, because both are believed to interfere with the results 
of abdominal percussion.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The inpatient population of a tertiary care hospital was
studied where cases and controls were selected according to the results of
abdominal ultrasonographic examinations.
RESULTS: Traube's space percussion exhibited a sensitivity of 0.62 (95%
confidence interval [CI], 0.51 to 0.71) and a specificity of 0.72 (95% CI, 0.65
to 0.80) when classifying tympanitic examinations as negative. False-positive
examinations were reduced by assessing patients more than two hours after
mealtime. Obese patients were a source of false-negative examinations.
CONCLUSION: Traube's space percussion compares favorably with other commonly used
clinical maneuvers and diagnostic tests. When performed alone in a selected
patient population, it adds useful clinical information but is not sufficiently
sensitive or specific to obviate the need for further diagnostic testing.

PMID: 2683766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):525-7.

Progressive systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma presenting as pulmonary
interstitial fibrosis.

Lomeo RM(1), Cornella RJ, Schabel SI, Silver RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this work was to report the clinical features of 10
patients with systemic sclerosis presenting with lung disease in the absence of
cutaneous involvement (systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study involved a retrospective review of patients with 
systemic sclerosis at a tertiary care facility presenting with clinical and/or
radiographic evidence of interstitial lung disease in the absence of cutaneous
manifestations of scleroderma, and a MEDLINE, computer search for patients who
presented with lung disease and later developed taut skin (scleroderma).
RESULTS: Ten patients with systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma presenting with
pulmonary signs or symptoms were discovered. A positive antinuclear antibody
(seven of eight), esophageal dysmotility (eight of nine), restrictive lung
disease (six of eight), Raynaud's phenomenon (five of eight), and abnormal
nailfold capillaries (six of six) were present in these patients. Six of these 10
patients developed typical scleroderma from four months to seven years after
presentation. Lung pathology was examined in six patients and all had changes
consistent with interstitial pneumonitis and fibrosis. Four of the 10 patients
had occupations that could have exposed them to potential pulmonary toxins. In
contrast to patients with typical scleroderma, all 10 patients we discovered were
men. conclusions: Systemic sclerosis should be considered in patients with
idiopathic interstitial lung disease even in the absence of classic
sclerodermatous cutaneous involvement. An esophagram, antinuclear antibody, and
widefield nailfold examination may facilitate the diagnosis.

PMID: 2683765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):505-10.

Decreased phenytoin levels in patients receiving chemotherapy.

Grossman SA(1), Sheidler VR, Gilbert MR.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: Seizures and unexpectedly low phenytoin levels prompted a
retrospective review of phenytoin doses and serum levels in patients with primary
brain tumors following the administration of cisplatin and carmustine (BCNU)
chemotherapy.
RESULTS: All patients who received three or more cycles of this chemotherapeutic 
regimen required an increase in their maintenance phenytoin dose to maintain
therapeutic phenytoin levels. The average increase in the daily phenytoin dose
was 41% (range, 20% to 100%). In addition, 17 of 26 (65%) assessable chemotherapy
cycles were accompanied by a greater than 20% decrease in phenytoin levels or an 
increase in phenytoin requirements. Significant changes in phenytoin levels
occurred as early as two days after administration of chemotherapy and were seen 
exclusively in treatment cycles that contained cisplatin. Five additional cases
were found in the literature in which serum phenytoin concentrations decreased
after the administration of antineoplastic agents.
CONCLUSIONS: These observations are important to physicians treating patients who
are receiving phenytoin. Serious consequences can be avoided by expecting changes
in phenytoin dosage requirements after the administration of chemotherapy,
monitoring serum levels frequently, and making appropriate adjustments in
phenytoin dosages. Prospective evaluations are needed to confirm these
observations, to define the chemotherapeutic agents that predispose patients to
these alterations in phenytoin's pharmacology, and to determine if drugs other
than phenytoin are affected by the administration of chemotherapy.

PMID: 2683764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):528-36.

Prospective study of the standard meal provocative test in Zollinger-Ellison
syndrome.

Frucht H(1), Howard JM, Stark HA, McCarthy DM, Maton PN, Gardner JD, Jensen RT.

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Diseases Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this work was to evaluate the proposed usefulness of a
standard meal-stimulated gastrin provocative test in: (1) distinguishing
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) from antral syndromes; (2) localizing duodenal
gastrinomas; or (3) suggesting that patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia
type I (MEN-I) may have an increased incidence of antral syndromes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-four consecutive patients with ZES referred to the 
National Institutes of Health were studied prospectively. The extent and location
of gastrinomas, acid secretory studies, and the presence or absence of MEN-I were
determined and correlated with the results of the gastrin response to standard
meal provocative testing.
RESULTS: For patients with fasting serum gastrin levels less than 1,000 pg/mL (n 
= 43), only 44% had a less than 50% increase over the pre-meal value, which is
reported to be the typical response in ZES, and 40% had a 50% to 99% increase.
Furthermore 16% had a 100% or greater increase, 9% a 150% or greater increase,
and 5% a 200% or greater increase, which overlaps with values reported to be
characteristic of 98%, 92%, and 46% of patients with antral syndromes. Results
did not differ for patients with or without MEN-I, depend on the extent of the
gastrinoma (duodenal versus pancreatic gastrinomas), the presence of previous
gastric surgery or type of gastric surgery, or for patients with fasting serum
gastrin concentrations greater than or equal to 1,000 pg/mL or less than 1,000
pg/mL. studies of four patients before and after resection of the gastrinoma, who
prior to surgery had a greater than 100% increase in gastrin secretion after the 
meal, demonstrated that all patients had a less than 100% increase
postoperatively even though no gastric resection was done.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately half of the patients with ZES have a greater than 50% 
increase in serum gastrin concentration following a standard test meal and one
fifth have a 100% or greater increase. Therefore, they cannot be distinguished on
this basis from patients with antral syndromes. The increased serum gastrin level
after the meal in these patients with ZES appears to be due to the gastrinoma.
Furthermore, the current study provides no evidence for the proposals that antral
syndromes are more common in patients with MEN-I, that gastric surgery affects
the meal response in patients with gastrinomas, or that the meal test is useful
in localizing duodenal gastrinomas.

PMID: 2573280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):501-4.

Arterial thrombosis associated with adjuvant chemotherapy for breast carcinoma: a
Cancer and Leukemia Group B Study.

Wall JG(1), Weiss RB, Norton L, Perloff M, Rice MA, Korzun AH, Wood WC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Medical Oncology, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, D.C.
20307.

PURPOSE: Multiagent chemotherapy and chemohormonal therapy for breast cancer are 
associated with an increased risk for venous thromboembolic complications. We
observed instances of arterial thrombosis in two studies of breast cancer
involving multiagent chemotherapy for stages II and III disease. Our purpose in
this study was to determine the incidence of this complication and whether it
appeared to be related to the chemotherapy or was a random event.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Episodes of arterial thrombotic events were identified from
record reviews of 1,014 assessable patients with breast cancer entered on two
Cancer and Leukemia Group B protocols. Details of the kind of arterial event,
when it occurred, the outcome, and the occurrence of metastases were analyzed.
RESULTS: Thirteen (1.3%) patients had an arterial thrombosis: six (5.3%) of 113
patients with stage III disease and seven (0.8%) of 901 patients with stage II
disease. Four of these patients had a peripheral arterial thrombosis and nine had
strokes (four were fatal). All these events occurred while the patients were
receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. Only one additional arterial event (a stroke
approximately four years later) has occurred in this patient group after
chemotherapy was completed.
CONCLUSION: Arterial thrombosis is also associated with multiagent chemotherapy
in patients with breast cancer. The mechanism is unknown.

PMID: 2510514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Am J Sports Med. 1989 Nov-Dec;17(6):760-5.

Patellofemoral problems after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.

Sachs RA(1), Daniel DM, Stone ML, Garfein RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, San Diego,
California.

Between 1982 and 1986, 126 patients who had undergone ACL reconstruction were
followed in a prospective manner. One year follow-up statistics were reviewed for
the presence of 13 different complications. The most prevalent complications were
quadriceps weakness, flexion contracture, and patellofemoral pain. Quadriceps
weakness (strength less than 80% of the normal side) was present in 65% of
patients and correlated positively with flexion contracture, patellar
irritabibilty, and ACL reconstructions using patellar tendon grafts. Flexion
contracture of 5 degrees or more was present in 24% of patients and correlated
positively with increased age and patellar irritability. Patellofemoral pain was 
present in 19% of patients and correlated positively with flexion
contracture.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The three most common complications of knee
ligament surgery are shown to be strongly interrelated. It is likely that a
causal relationship is present in which flexion contracture causes patellofemoral
irritability, and that both of these factors, alone or in combination, result in 
quadriceps weakness. If this theory is correct, then it is crucial that
postoperative rehabilitation programs place a major emphasis on the avoidance of 
flexion contracture.

PMID: 2624287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):738-42.

Risk for colorectal adenocarcinoma in pernicious anemia. A population-based
cohort study.

Talley NJ(1), Chute CG, Larson DE, Epstein R, Lydick EG, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 15;112(8):630-1.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term risk for colorectal cancer among
patients with pernicious anemia.
DESIGN: Historical cohort study.
SETTING: Population-based inception cohort of Rochester, Minnesota, residents.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified 150 Rochester residents who had the onset of 
pernicious anemia during the 30-year period from 1950 through 1979, and we
followed this cohort for 1664 person-years of observation. The observed risk for 
subsequent colorectal cancer in the cohort was compared with that expected based 
on incidence rates of colon and rectal cancer for the local population.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 14 cases of colorectal cancer among the
150 patients with pernicious anemia (where 10.5 cases were expected), and 9 of
these cases were found after the diagnosis of pernicious anemia was established
(where 5.1 cases were expected). The relative risk for colon cancer at any time
after the diagnosis of pernicious anemia was 1.8 (CI, 0.8 to 3.3). The relative
risk was greatest (4.1; CI, 1.7 to 8.7) in the 5-year period immediately after
the diagnosis of pernicious anemia; during this period, 7 cases of colon cancers 
were observed but only 1.7 were expected (P less than 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Although the overall risk does not achieve statistical significance, 
patients with pernicious anemia may have an increased risk for colorectal
adenocarcinoma in the 5 years after diagnosis.

PMID: 2802432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):730-7.

Home prothrombin time monitoring after the initiation of warfarin therapy. A
randomized, prospective study.

White RH(1), McCurdy SA, von Marensdorff H, Woodruff DE Jr, Leftgoff L.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Davis Medical Center, Sacramento.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and accuracy of monitoring prothrombin 
times at home.
DESIGN: Randomized, prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Outpatients discharged from a university hospital or a community
hospital.
PATIENTS: Fifty patients started on warfarin for the first time who demonstrated 
an ability to use the monitor and who had not achieved a stable response to
warfarin in the hospital.
INTERVENTION: Oral anticoagulation therapy managed using a portable prothrombin
time monitor compared with specialized anticoagulation clinic care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the 46 patients who completed the 8-week study,
the median percentage of time that patients in the home-monitor group (n = 23)
were within a range equal to the target prothrombin ratio +/- 0.3, but always
above 1.25, was 93%, compared with 75% for patients in the clinic group (n = 23) 
(P = 0.003). There was no significant difference between groups in the percentage
of time above the therapeutic range; however, the percentage of time that
patients were subtherapeutic was significantly greater in the clinic group (P
less than 0.001). There were no major thromboembolic or hemorrhagic complications
in either group. Differences between home monitor measurements and corresponding 
clinical laboratory measurements using blood samples drawn within 4 hours of the 
home test were comparable to differences observed between measurements using two 
different clinical laboratory instruments.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a portable prothrombin time monitor by patients at home is
feasible and provides accurate measurements. Patients doing home monitoring
achieve superior anticoagulation control compared with those receiving standard
anticoagulation clinic care.

PMID: 2802431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):723-9.

Long-term danazol therapy in autoimmune thrombocytopenia: unmaintained remission 
and age-dependent response in women.

Ahn YS(1), Rocha R, Mylvaganam R, Garcia R, Duncan R, Harrington WJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Miami Hospital, Florida.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Mar 15;112(6):474-5.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term benefit and side effects of danazol
therapy, and to delineate factors influencing the responses in patients with
autoimmune thrombocytopenia.
DESIGN: Before and after trial.
SETTING: Referral-based hematology clinics and the University of Miami teaching
hospitals.
PATIENTS: Data were collected on 96 patients (60 women and 36 men, 45 of whom had
had splenectomies) receiving danazol therapy for autoimmune thrombocytopenia and 
analyzed.
INTERVENTION: Danazol was added to the previous therapy or begun as an initial
therapy. Glucocorticoids were tapered gradually.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The overall response rate to danazol was 61.4%.
Among responders, the platelet counts (mean +/- SD) before and after danazol
treatment were 36 +/- 24 x 10(9)/L and 145 +/- 77 x 10(9)/L, respectively, and
the time to response was 2.7 +/- 3 months. Sex, age, and the status of the spleen
(absent or present) influenced the responses to danazol. In women, but not in
men, response rates improved with advancing age, especially in the
nonsplenectomized women. This may be because estrogen levels are high in younger 
women and low in older women and men. Danazol, when given longer than a year,
induced remissions lasting for years even after its discontinuation, but early
relapses were frequent when danazol was administered for less than 6 months.
Platelet-associated IgG returned to normal range during unmaintained remission.
CONCLUSION: Danazol is best suited for long-term medical management of autoimmune
thrombocytopenia. It is well tolerated, and lasting, unmaintained remissions
often occur after prolonged danazol administration. Age, sex, and the status of
the spleen influence the responses. When danazol therapy is used, glucocorticoids
can be substantially reduced in dosage or withdrawn. Danazol is a good
alternative to splenectomy in elderly persons, especially in women.

PMID: 2802430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):743-50.

Antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy after coronary artery bypass surgery. A
meta-analysis of clinical trials.

Henderson WG(1), Goldman S, Copeland JG, Moritz TE, Harker LA.

Author information: 
(1)Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center, Hines Veterans Administration
Hospital, Illinois.

PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy of antiplatelet or anti-coagulant therapy in
preventing graft occlusions after coronary artery bypass surgery.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies published from 1966 to 1988 were identified through 
a computerized search using MEDLINE, by searching the bibliographies of all
identified articles, and by consulting with the cardiologists and cardiothoracic 
surgeons in the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study Group on Antiplatelet
Therapy After Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery.
STUDY SELECTION: All studies selected were randomized, controlled clinical trials
comparing at least one active drug with a placebo or nonplacebo control group.
DATA EXTRACTION: Key data were extracted from each article, including the
percentage of patients in each treatment group with one or more grafts occluded, 
the percentage of patients with completed postoperative catheterizations, timing 
of postoperative catheterization, and timing of start of treatment. These data
were easily obtained from each article and did not require multiple observers.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: All studies had positive treatment-effect sizes in
favor of active treatment, although some studies did not achieve statistical
significance. A meta-analysis combining all treatment effects clearly shows that 
active treatment is beneficial (overall effect size = 0.30; CI, 0.21 to 0.38).
Efficacy improves with early initiation of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Early initiation of antiplatelet or anticoagulant drugs reduces the 
incidence of graft occlusions after coronary artery bypass surgery.

PMID: 2679289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):703-12.

Systemic therapy in patients with node-negative breast cancer. A commentary based
on two National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) clinical
trials.

Fisher B(1), Redmond C, Wickerham DL, Wolmark N, Bowman D, Couture J, Dimitrov
NV, Margolese R, Legault-Poisson S, Robidoux A.

Author information: 
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Headquarters, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether in the previous National Surgical Adjuvant Breast
and Bowel Project (NSABP) studies of node-negative breast cancer there were
either cohorts of patients with a prognosis favorable enough to preclude using
systemic therapy or subsets of patients who failed to benefit from the
treatments.
DESIGN: Randomized clinical trials with stratification after surgery.
SETTING: NSABP trials at institutions in the United States and Canada.
PATIENTS: Data were collected on 731 eligible patients (Protocol B-13) with
estrogen-receptor-negative tumors who randomly received either no therapy after
surgery or sequential methotrexate and fluorouracil (M----F) followed by
leucovorin. Data were also collected on 2834 patients (Protocol B-14) with
estrogen-receptor-positive tumors who randomly received either placebo or
tamoxifen treatment. The percentage of patients surviving disease-free was
determined through 4 years of follow-up using life-table estimates.
INTERVENTIONS: Protocol B-13 patients received 12 courses of M----F given
intravenously on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks. Leucovorin therapy was begun 24
hours after M----F administration. Protocol B-14 patients received 5-year
treatment with either tamoxifen (10 mg twice daily by mouth) or placebo.
RESULTS: When the outcome of untreated patients in either trial was related to
the stratification variables, women were found to have a disease-free survival of
less than 80% through 4 years of follow-up. This percentage is apt to decrease
because the probability of treatment failure increases with time. In both trials,
all subsets of women benefited from M----F or tamoxifen therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The disease-free survival of all cohorts of node-negative patients
with estrogen-receptor-negative or estrogen-receptor-positive tumors was poor
enough to justify systemic treatment. The benefits of the therapies used are
insufficient to eliminate the need for assessing putatively better regimens.

PMID: 2679288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):713-22.

Secretin and calcium provocative tests in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A
prospective study.

Frucht H(1), Howard JM, Slaff JI, Wank SA, McCarthy DM, Maton PN, Vinayek R,
Gardner JD, Jensen RT.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda,
Maryland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 1;111(9):697-9.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate criteria of positivity for and usefulness of both
the secretin and calcium gastrin-provocative tests in patients with the
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
DESIGN: Prospective trial in consecutive patients.
SETTING: Referrals to a clinical research center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 80 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
INTERVENTION: Kabi-secretin (2 U/kg body weight) given by intravenous bolus and
calcium gluconate (10%) (54 mg/kg.h [5 mg/kg.h of calcium]) given by continuous
intravenous infusion for 3 hours. Serum gastrin measured at -15, and -1 minutes
before, and 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 minutes after secretin, or every 30 minutes 
for 3 hours during the calcium infusion. Serum calcium and serum gastrin were
measured simultaneously during the calcium infusion.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the
responses of patients with different extents or locations of the tumor, presence 
or absence of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type-I, or with fasting gastrin less 
than or greater than 1000 pg/mL. In patients with fasting gastrin of less than
1000 pg/mL, the sensitivity of the secretin test using the criterion of an
increase in gastrin of at least 110 pg/mL was 93% (CI, 76% to 99%) and for an
increase of 200 pg/mL it was 85% (CI, 66% to 96%), (P greater than 0.05). With
the calcium infusion test, the sensitivity using the criterion of an increase of 
395 pg/mL was 43%, (CI, 23% to 66%) and for an increase of 50% was 74% (CI, 52%
to 90%), (P less than 0.01). The calcium infusion test was positive in 33% of
patients with a negative secretin test. With the secretin test, 75% of patients
had a positive response by 5 minutes, 95% by 10 minutes, 100% by 15 minutes, and 
6% only at 2 minutes. With calcium infusion, patients had positive responses at
120 to 180 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: The secretin test is preferred over the calcium test because of its 
greater sensitivity and simplicity. The recommended criteria are a 200 pg/mL
increase for the secretin test and a 395 pg/mL increase for the calcium test. The
calcium test should be reserved for patients having a negative secretin test,
gastric acid hypersecretion, and a strong clinical suspicion of the
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

PMID: 2572194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Ann Ital Chir. 1989 Nov-Dec;60(6):537-41; discussion 541-2.

[The role of blood transfusion on the postoperative morbidity of tumors of the
colon and rectum].

[Article in Italian]

Leardi S, Valente A, Pietroletti R, Aloisio F, Risetti A, Speranza V, Simi M.

Previous studies have demonstrated that perioperative blood transfusions in
patients with colo-rectal cancer may be related to a poor p.o. prognosis. Blood
transfusions have been reported to exert an immunosuppressive action thus
representing a risk factor of p.o. septic complication.MATERIAL AND METHOD: 100
patients were investigated retrospectively (60 M. and 40 F., mean age 61.7 yrs,
range 18-86). Location of the tumour was rectum in 49 cases, sigmoid in 33,
descending colon in 9 and ascending colon in 9. Dukes' staging of the tumour was 
A in 16 cases, B in 34, C in 30, D in 20. 61% of the patients received blood
transfusions, before the operation in 10, during the operation in 13, after the
operation in 16. 22 patients received blood transfusions before, during and after
the operation. P.o. septic complications were then correlated to number and
timing of blood transfusions, sex and age of the patients, location of neoplasm, 
Dukes' staging, surgical technique, severe anemia and malnutrition.
RESULTS: P.o. septic complications were observed in 25 patients, without
significative correlation with patients sex and age, site and staging of the
tumour, surgical technique, preoperative anemia and/or malnutrition. A
statistically significative increase in the incidence of septic complications was
observed only in transfused patients compared to non transfused (34% vs. 10.3% - 
X2 = 5.62, p less than 0.01). This was noted regardless the presence of advanced 
disease, location of the tumour, surgical technique employed. The increased
incidence of septic p.o. complications was observed even comparing transfused to 
non-transfused grouped accordingly to the different factors considered in the
study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2639611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Bull Osaka Med Coll. 1989 Nov;35(1-2):11-9.

Effects of norepinephrine on the proximal tubular cells in perfused bullfrog
kidney.

Kubota T(1), Hagiwara N, Kubokawa M, Fujimoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

To study effects of norepinephrine (NE) on sodium and hydrogen ion transport, we 
used H(+)-, Ca2(+)-, or Na(+)-selective microelectrode and split-oil droplet
techniques in doubly-perfused bullfrog proximal tubules. Peritubular membrane
potential difference (EM), intracellular activities of Na+ ((Na)i) and Ca2+
((Ca)i), and pH of the cytosol (pHi) and the lumen (pHTF) were monitored
continuously during peritubular administration of NE (10(-6)-10(-7) M),
phenylephrine (PHE, 10(-7) M), or dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db-cAMP, 10(-4)
M).RESULTS: (1) The peritubular application of NE produced: a) an enhancement of 
proximal fluid reabsorption, b) a transient fall of pHTF by about 0.2, c) a
gradual hyperpolarization of EM and a slight decrease of (Na)i with oscillation, 
d) a mild cell acidification by about 0.05 pH, and e) an increase of (Ca)i. (2)
The peritubular perfusion of PHE (alpha 1-agonist) caused: a) a transient fall of
pHTF by about 0.3, b) a transient depolarization of EM and an increase of (Na)i, 
followed by sustained hyperpolarization of EM and a decrease of (Na)i, c)
cytosolic acidification by about 0.1 pH, and d) a slight decrease of (Ca)i,
followed by a sustained increase of (Ca)i. (3) The peritubular application of
db-cAMP produced: a) a reduction of proximal fluid reabsorption, b) a transient
elevation of pHTF by about 0.15, c) a hyperpolarization of EM with a gradual
decrease of (Na)i, d) cytosolic alkalinization by about 0.15 pH, and e) biphasic 
change of (Ca)i: i.e., a slight increase of (Ca)i followed by a sustained
decrease of (Ca)i.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2486238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Doc Ophthalmol. 1989 Nov;73(3):255-74.

Red glasses and visual function in retinitis pigmentosa.

Van den Berg TJ.

Author information: 
The Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute, Amsterdam.

As a consequence of animal reduction of the light regimes have been tried on
patients with retinitis pigmentosa. The trials have been very limited and have
not given reason for hope that such reduced light therapy may be beneficial.
However, RP patients trying red glasses have reported acute subjective
improvement of their visual function. It was the purpose of this study to try to 
document the reports more objectively. Five visual functions were tested with and
without red glasses with the following results: 1. Visual acuity and contrast
sensitivity. For one volunteer a small reproducible improvement was found. 2.
Color vision. In most cases deterioration was found of already deficient color
vision. 3. Visual fields. For volunteers with relatively preserved vision no
difference or slight deterioration was found. For the other volunteers slight
improvements were found. 4. Intraocular light scatter. No differences were found.
5. Dark adaptation. Improvements were found when the glasses were used as
adaptation aid according to the method of Trendelenburg (rod function). For cone 
function no difference was found upon continuous wearing of red glasses.IN
CONCLUSION: use of red glasses does not seem to be of great benefit as a rule. On
the other hand, apart from the reduction in color discrimination no serious
disadvantages seem to be inherent in their wear by RP patients.

PMID: 2638244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Eur Heart J. 1989 Nov;10 Suppl F:179-82.

Poststenotic ischaemic myocardial dysfunction induced by peripheral nociceptive
stimulation.

Kröger K(1), Schipke J, Thämer V, Heusch G.

Author information: 
(1)Abt. Herz- und Kreislaufphysiologie, Universität Düsseldorf, F.R.G.

Sympathetic activation increases cardiac performance, and the increased
myocardial oxygen demand is adequately met by an increase in coronary blood flow 
after metabolic coronary dilation under normal conditions. Distal to a severe
coronary stenosis, however, activation of cardiac sympathetic nerves induces
myocardial ischaemia by alpha 2-adrenergic coronary constriction. Activation of
cardiac sympathetic nerves is one of the autonomous reactions associated with
acute somatic pain. Therefore we investigated the effects of acute somatic pain
on regional myocardial function distal to a severe coronary stenosis. In 5
anaesthetized, vagotomized dogs activation of cardiac sympathetic nerves was
achieved by electrical stimulation of the nervus peronaeus superficialis. To
analyse regional myocardial function, myocardial wall thickness was continuously 
measured by sonomicrometry in the circumflex-perfused posterior and in the
anterior (control) myocardium. Under control conditions, nociceptive stimulation 
increased systolic wall thickening of the posterior myocardium from 10.9 +/- 3.9%
to 13.6 +/- 5.0%. With a severe stenosis on the left circumflex coronary artery, 
systolic wall thickening was reduced to 7.0 +/- 2.5% and further decreased to 4.6
+/- 2.3% during nociceptive stimulation. Intravenous injection of 27
micrograms/kg fentanyl prevented the deterioration of poststenotic myocardial
function during nociceptive stimulation.CONCLUSION: Acute somatic pain can induce
ischaemic myocardial dysfunction distal to a severe coronary stenosis by
activation of cardiac sympathetic nerves. Fentanyl not only prevents the pain
sensation but also poststenotic ischaemic myocardial dysfunction.

PMID: 2620687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Gan No Rinsho. 1989 Nov;35(14):1665-72.

[Histological malignancy grading of oral squamous cell carcinomas].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto E(1), Nakagawa K, Fujimoto E, Muroki T, Kumagai S, Kojima S, Takatsuka
S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Oral Surgery, School of Med., Kanazawa Univ.

A modification of Jakobsson's criteria that determines the mode of cancer
invasion (Yamamoto, 1982) has been reported to be useful in predicting the
prognosis in patients with an oral squamous cell carcinoma. In this retrospective
study, a five-factorial grading system of the histological malignancy (+ the
differentiations, the nuclear polymorphism, the mitoses, and the cellular
response) was evaluated in relation to clinical course of each patient.RESULT: 75
cases were classified into four grades from Grade 1, the lowest malignancy, to
Grade 4, the highest malignancy. The percentage metastases was 10, 24, 54, and
75% for each grade, respectively. The percentage of survival was 75, 75, 35, and 
25% for each grade, respectively. From these results, this grading system was
seen to have a close-correlation with the clinical course of each patient.

PMID: 2593233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. J Endocrinol Invest. 1989 Nov;12(10):671-7.

Immunological aspects of Graves' disease patients in different clinical stages.

Gauna A(1), Segura G, Sartorio G, Soto R, Segal-Eiras A.

Author information: 
(1)División Endocrinología, Hospital Ramos Mejía, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Humoral immunological differences and the relation between circulating immune
complexes (CIC) and the thyrotropin-receptor antibody (TRAB) were evaluated in
newly diagnosed (n = 30), relapsed (n = 27) and remission patients (n = 29) with 
Graves' disease. CIC were assessed by C1q-binding assay (CIC-C1q) and the PEG
precipitation test (CIC-PEG); TRAb by the radioreceptor method and microsomal
antibody (MAb) by passive hemagglutination test. The data were expressed as mean 
+/- SE. No difference was observed in the CIC-C1q among newly diagnosed, relapsed
and remission patients, but they were elevated vs controls (p less than 0.01,
less than 0.05, less than 0.05, respectively). In newly diagnosed subjects with
positive TRAb, CIC were higher than in those with negative TRAb (p less than
0.05) and also higher than in relapsed patients with positive TRAb (p less than
0.05). In newly diagnosed group CIC-C1q correlated to TRAb presence but not to
TRAb values. CIC-PEG and TRAb levels were similar in newly diagnosed and relapsed
patients, being higher than in controls (p less than 0.01) and in remission
patients (p less than 0.01). No significant differences were observed in MAb in
any of the groups.CONCLUSIONS: i) Patients in remission were immunologically
active and they differed from newly diagnosed and relapsed patients by CIC-PEG
and TRAb values; ii) in hyperthyroid patients with positive TRAb, CIC-C1q were
higher at the initial stage of the disease; iii) A direct correlation between
CIC-C1q and TRAb presence was observed in newly diagnosed patients, but no
relation could be seen in the other groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2614006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Nov-Dec;4(6):482-9.

Training physicians about smoking cessation: a controlled trial in private
practice.

Cummings SR(1), Richard RJ, Duncan CL, Hansen B, Vander Martin R, Gerbert B,
Coates TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San Francisco
94143-0320.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypotheses that physicians in private practice who
receive a continuing education program (entitled "Quit for Life") about how to
counsel smokers to quit would counsel smokers more effectively and have higher
rates of long-term smoking cessation among their patients.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with blinded assessment of principal outcomes.
SETTING: Private practices of internal medicine and family practice.
SUBJECTS: Forty-four physicians randomly assigned to receive training (24) or
serve as controls (20) and consecutive samples of smokers visiting each physician
(19.6 patients per experimental and 22.3 per control physician).
INTERVENTIONS: Physicians received three hours of training about how to help
smokers quit. Physicians and their office staffs were also given self-help
booklets to distribute to smokers and were urged to use a system of stickers on
charts as reminders to counsel smokers about quitting.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Based on telephone interviews with patients,
physicians in the experimental group were more likely to discuss smoking with
patients who smoked (64% vs. 44%), spent more time counseling smokers about
quitting (7.5 vs. 5.2 minutes), helped more smokers set dates to quit smoking
(29% vs. 5% of smokers), gave out more self-help booklets (37% vs. 9%), and were 
more likely to make a follow-up appointment about quitting smoking (19% vs. 11%
of those counseled) than physicians in the control group. One year later, the
rates of biochemically confirmed, long-term (greater than or equal to 9 months)
abstinence from smoking were similar among patients in the experimental (3.2%)
and control (2.5%) groups (95% confidence interval for the 0.7% difference: -1.7 
to +3.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: The authors conclude that this continuing education program
substantially changed the way physicians counseled smokers, but had little or no 
impact on rates of long-term smoking cessation among their patients. There is a
need for more effective strategies to help physicians help their patients to quit
smoking.

PMID: 2685206  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Nov-Dec;4(6):514-21.

Evaluating humanistic attributes of internal medicine residents.

Klessig J(1), Robbins AS, Wieland D, Rubenstein L.

Author information: 
(1)UCLA School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: Methods of assessing humanism in internal medicine residents have not 
been completely designed or evaluated. This study used patient satisfaction as a 
measure of humanism, and assessed the validity of using faculty physicians to
evaluate residents' humanistic behavior. Residents' ability to assess themselves 
was also evaluated.
SETTING: A university-affiliated internal medicine training program.
SUBJECTS: Forty-seven internal medicine residents were evaluated by patients,
faculty, and themselves.
DESIGN: Faculty physicians were given standard faculty evaluation and patient
satisfaction forms, and were asked to evaluate residents. These evaluations were 
compared with the patients' responses on the same satisfaction forms. Residents
performed self-assessment using identical forms; these responses were compared
with those of the faculty and patients.
RESULTS: There was no correlation between patients' responses and those of the
faculty or residents. There was a significant inverse correlation between
resident and faculty responses, especially for the female residents (r = 0.71).
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest the need for further study of the evaluation
process, including what factors influence individuals to respond as they do. It
appears that the use of one rating group is not sufficient to achieve an accurate
assessment of residents' humanistic skills. The present status of the process of 
evaluating humanism is discussed.

PMID: 2585160  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Nov-Dec;4(6):512-3.

Pica: its frequency and significance in patients with iron-deficiency anemia due 
to chronic gastrointestinal blood loss.

Rector WG Jr.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, Denver General Hospital, Colorado 80204-4507.

PURPOSE: Pica, particularly ice-eating (pagophagia), is a recognized symptom of
iron deficiency. The value of pica as a clue to the etiology of blood loss has
never been studied.
PATIENT POPULATION: Fifty-five unselected patients with iron-deficiency anemia
due to gastrointestinal blood loss evaluated by a gastroenterology referral
service at a city hospital.
RESULTS: The patients' mean hematocrit was 26 +/- 15% (SD). Thirty two (58%) had 
pica, and in 28 (88%) it manifested as pagophagia. Pica was present significantly
more often in women (19/32, 68%) than in men (9/23, 39%, p less than 0.05). Pica 
occurred less frequently in patients with malignancy (2/9 vs. 30/46), but this
difference was not significant.
CONCLUSION: Pica, a frequent symptom in patients with iron-deficiency anemia due 
to gastrointestinal blood loss, particularly women, is not of value in predicting
the cause of bleeding.

PMID: 2585159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Nov-Dec;4(6):506-11.

Patient perception of involvement in medical care: relationship to illness
attitudes and outcomes.

Brody DS(1), Miller SM, Lerman CE, Smith DG, Caputo GC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Temple University School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, PA 19140.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to explore the relationships among
patients' perceptions about the roles they played during medical visits, their
subsequent attitudes about their illnesses and treatments, and their self-rated
improvement.
DESIGN: Questionnaires were completed by patients before, one day after, and one 
week after their medical visits, and by their physicians following the visits.
SETTING: The study was conducted in a general internal medicine faculty practice 
that provided adult primary care to a largely HMO population.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult patients with new or increased symptoms who were capable of
reading and understanding the study questionnaire.
MAIN RESULTS: Fifty-five patients (47%) reported playing an active role; 62
patients (53%) reported playing a passive role. After adjusting for age, sex,
baseline illness ratings, and physician-rated prognosis, "active" patients
reported less discomfort (p = 0.04), greater alleviation of symptoms (p = 0.008),
and more improvement in their general medical condition (p = 0.04) one week after
the visits than did "passive" patients. These differences were not influenced by 
the roles patients desired to play. Active patients also reported less concern
with their illnesses (p = 0.04), a greater sense of control of their illnesses (p
= 0.04), and more satisfaction with their physicians (p = 0.02) one day after the
visit. Post-visit dysfunction ratings were not related to patients' role
perceptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients' perceptions about their involvement in care appeared to be
related to their attitudes about their illnesses as well as to recovery. Further 
research is needed, however, to determine the factors that influence these role
perceptions and to define the types of patients, illnesses, and settings in which
the benefits of active-role perceptions are most likely to be realized.

PMID: 2585158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Masui. 1989 Nov;38(11):1463-8.

[The role of catecholamine content in human platelets; clinical implications in
patients with pheochromocytoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Okutani R, Kono K, Fukuda T, Nakamura H, Ishida H.

This study examined if the platelet catecholamine content (CA) in healthy adults 
and patients with adrenal tumors reflected the activity of the
sympatho-adrenomedullary system.RESULTS: (1) In 44 healthy adults, platelet
norepinephrine (NE) levels ranged from 72 to 1175 pg.mg-1.protein-1 (mean:
473pg.mg-1.protein-1) and platelet epinephrine (E) levels ranged from 23 to 273
pg.mg-1.protein-1 (mean: 68 pg.mg-1.protein-1). These were used as normal ranges 
for this study. (2) In patients with adrenal tumors, plasma CA level, urinary CA 
elimination and platelet CA content were higher in patients with pheochromocytoma
than in those with other adrenal tumors. Mean platelet NE and E levels for
patients with pheochromocytoma were 2188 and 336 pg.mg-1.protein-1, respectively.
These results indicate that a large amount of CA is contained in platelets
(particularly in patients with pheochromocytoma), and that platelet CA level is
very useful for preoperative diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. The results also
suggest that platelet CA level closely reflects the activity of the
sympatho-adrenomedullary system.

PMID: 2585715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1989 Nov;12(11):1806-15.

Evaluation of the temperature response to exercise testing in patients with
single chamber, rate adaptive pacemakers: a multicenter study.

Fearnot NE(1), Smith HJ, Sellers D, Boal B.

Author information: 
(1)Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907.

Temperature responsive pacemakers were implanted in 45 patients (ages 44 to 90); 
31 patients were evaluated by randomized, paired treadmill exercise tests 1 month
postimplant. Of 28 males and 17 females, 19 had coronary artery disease; 8 had
congestive heart failure. Pacing indications included sinus node disease (26),
atrial fibrillation (15), AV block (10), and brady/tachy syndrome (10); some had 
multiple indications. Blood temperature (every 10 seconds, resolution = 0.004
degrees C) and pacing rate (every minute) were telemetered from the pacemaker.
Average heart rate, exercise duration (5.7 min VVI; 6.7 min VVIR), VVIR response 
time (22 sec), initial temperature drop (0.23 degrees C) and maximum rate of drop
(0.65 degrees C/min), temperature rise (0.31 degrees C VVI; 0.38 degrees C VVIR) 
and rate of rise (0.27 degrees C/min) were studied in a subset of patients. In
pacer-dependent patients, average paired increases in exercise duration and heart
rate was 56% and 34%, respectively. Including all (31) patients, some with
intermittent sinus rhythm, increases were 28% and 9%, respectively. Because
exercise duration increased, temperature rise was higher with rate adaptation.
Rate adaptation was obtainable in all patients and patients averaged 99 +/- 48
increases above basic pacing rate per day at nominal temperature
sensitivity.CONCLUSION: Beneficial rate adaptation is achievable using blood
temperature to modify rate in a sensor based system.

PMID: 2478981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 Nov-Dec;15(6):630-2.

Effect of peripheral i.v. infusion on neonatal axillary temperature measurement.

Abrams L, Buchholz C, McKenzie NS, Merenstein GB.

To determine whether axillary temperature in an arm with a peripheral IV infusion
(PIVI) is significantly different than in the arm without a PIVI in
neonates.METHOD: Twenty-nine neonates ranging in Dubowitz gestational age from
27-42 weeks were selected from Level II and III nurseries. Each had a PIVI in
place in an upper extremity. Right axillary, left axillary, and rectal
temperatures were taken simultaneously.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between left and right axillary
temperatures using a t-test.
CONCLUSION: Either axilla may be used for temperature measurement regardless of
PIVI placement.

PMID: 2616240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Pflugers Arch. 1989 Nov;415(2):183-90.

Electrical properties of cultured renal tubular cells (OK) grown in confluent
monolayers.

Schwegler JS(1), Heuner A, Silbernagl S.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut, Universität Würzburg, Federal Republic of Germany.

OK cells grown to confluent monolayers were investigated by microelectrode
techniques and microinjection. Cell membrane potential difference (PDm) in
bicarbonate-free solution is -61.8 +/- 0.6 mV (n = 208), cell membrane resistance
(Rm) amounts to 1.4 +/- 0.2 k omega. cm2 (n = 8). The apparent transference
number for potassium (t'k+) is 71 +/- 3% (n = 28) and can be reduced by 3 mmol/l 
BaCl2 to 7.5 +/- 4.0%; (n = 8). In the presence of extracellular CO2 and HCO3-
(pH 7.4) the cells acidify by 0.34 +/- 0.05 pH units (n = 12). This leads to a
depolarization of PDm by 8.4 +/- 1.8 mV (n = 8), an increase in Rm by 49 +/- 10% 
(n = 10), and a reduction of K+-conductance to 63 +/- 5% (n = 13). Intracellular 
acidification by the NH4Cl-prepulse technique also inhibits K+-conductance and
depolarizes the membrane. Recovery from an intracellular acid load is reflected
by cell membrane repolarization. This recovery can be inhibited by amiloride
(10(-3) mol/l). Na+- and Cl- -conductances could not be detected. The
transepithelial resistance (Rte) of OK cell monolayers 1 day after plating is 41 
+/- 6 omega.cm2 and decreases with time after plating. Intercellular
communication (electrical or dye coupling) was not observed.CONCLUSIONS: 1. The
membrane potential of OK cells is largely determined by a pH-sensitive,
barium-blockable K+-conductance. 2. Amiloride-blockable Na+/H+-exchange is
reflected by membrane potential changes via this K+-conductance. 3. Monolayers of
OK cells are electrically leaky.

PMID: 2594474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Pneumologie. 1989 Nov;43 Suppl 1:572-5.

[Diagnosis of the function of respiratory control in patients with obstructive
sleep apnea syndrome].

[Article in German]

Tafil-Klawe M, Raschke F, Becker H, Hein H, Peter JH.

Twenty-five patients with OSAS were investigated and compared with an age-matched
control group of 20 healthy volunteers. The ventilatory responses to pure oxygen 
administration, active hyperventilation, progressive hyperoxic hypercapnia and
progressive isocapnic hypoxia were studied in all subjects.RESULTS: Hypoxic
ventilatory response in OSAS patients was significantly diminished as compared
with the control group. Hypercapnic ventilatory response, decrease in ventilation
due to chemoreceptor inactivation during oxygen respiration and after
hyperventilation did not differ in the two groups. The diminished response to
hypoxia in OSAS patients was correlated with the increased
respiration-synchronous changes in nasal resistance. Our data seem to suggest
that in OSAS patients the diminished responsiveness to hypoxia may increase the
likelihood of nocturnal apnea. A decrease in hypoxic inspiratory drive appears to
be one mechanism initiating upper airway occlusion.

PMID: 2514426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Pneumologie. 1989 Nov;43 Suppl 1:568-71.

[The diurnal rhythm of chemosensitivity and its contribution to nocturnal
disorders of respiratory control].

[Article in German]

Raschke F, Möller KH.

Circadian variation of chemosensitivity was examined under constant standardized 
metabolic and climatic conditions. Progressive hyperoxic hypercapnia tests and
progressive isocapnic hypoxia tests were applied every 2 h in 10 healthy male
subjects employing rebreathing (6 l spirometer). During the 24 h run they were
confined to bed. They were allowed sleep at their convenience, but were woken for
examination, and were given a low-protein isocaloric diet after each of the 13
tests. For assessment of psychophysiological performance, auditory reaction time,
flicker fusion frequency, and self ratings of mood and activation were applied.
ECG, body core temperature, nasal respiration, tcpaO2 and galvanic skin
resistance were recorded continuously for 24 hrs.RESULTS: Chemosensitivity
revealed a highly significant circadian variation with respect to a shift in the 
CO2-response (amplitude +/- 3 mmHg), and an amplitude of +/- 12 mmHg for the
O2-response. Maximal sensitivity was found at 5 p.m., the absolute minimum at 5
a.m. Body core temperature, auditory reaction time, and flicker fusion frequency 
paralleled these changes in chemosensitivity. The results show that there is a
pronounced 24 h cycle of chemosensitivity that is independent of sleep. Since
chemosensitivity, and respiratory drive keeping upper and lower airways patent,
are closely related, it is concluded that the circadian variation in
chemosensitivity may substantially contribute to nocturnal increase in airway
resistance, and central and obstructive apneas as well.

PMID: 2514425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Nov;8(11):791-4.

[Isolated hypoplasia of the right ventricle--apropos of a case].

[Article in Portuguese]

Branco LM, Gonçalves JM, Velho HV, Ferreira MG, Oliveira JA, Agapito AF, Pereira 
AJ, Ferreira ML, Salomão S, Bento RS.

OBJECTIVE: To report one case of a rare heart disease (Isolated Hypoplasia of the
Right Ventricle) and discuss the methodology used to propose surgery with goal.
Good follow up results.
DESIGN: To report a case.
SETTING: One patient studied in the Cardiology Department of the Santa Marta
Hospital, Lisbon, and submitted to surgery in the Cardiothoracic Surgery
Department of the same Hospital.
PATIENT: A 22 years old woman, who had cyanosis since birth, normal cardiac
auscultatory findings, pulmonary oligohemia in the chest Roentgenogram and right 
atrial strain on the Electrocardiogram.
INTERVENTIONS: She had an echocardiogram (M1 Mode and 2D) and catheterised, with 
pressure and oximetry measurements. During the latter procedure, the atrial
septal defect was occluded for 20 minutes with a Fogarty catheter and pressure
and oximetries were reevaluated. She was later operated.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: The Echocardiogram showed right ventricular hypoplasia,
with a normally inserted tricuspid valve and a dilated right atrium. The
hemodynamic study confirmed the presence of an atrial septal defect with right to
left shunt, normal pulmonary artery pressure, no gradients and giant "a" wave in 
the right auriculogram. The right ventriculography showed right ventricular
inflow hypoplasia. The occlusion of the atrial septal defect with the balloon
catheter decreased the peripheral insaturation, without a significant increase in
the right ventricular pressure. With this information, surgery was proposed
(closure of the atrial septal defect), with good results (4 years of follow-up).
CONCLUSION: The interruption of the shunt with a balloon allows us to see if the 
right ventricle can handle properly the volume load. With this information
surgery can be suggested. It may be rather simple as in this case.

PMID: 2631828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Nov;8(11):775-8.

[Metolazone in the treatment of refractory heart insufficiency. Experience of 10 
cases].

[Article in Portuguese]

Kirancumar, Loureiro PA, Correia JM.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate efficacy of the association furosemide-metolazona in ten
retrospective cases of Congestive heart failure, furosemide resistant.
SETTING: Service of cardiology, patients admitted in two year period, from
September 1985 through May 1987.
PATIENTS: Revision of ten cases of congestive heart failure who was administered 
metolazona after inadequate response to furosemide. The etiology of congestive
heart failure included three cases of ischemic heart disease, two cases of
dilated myocardiopathy, two cases of rheumatic valvular cardiopathy, one case of 
congenital heart disease, two cases with no established etiology. All cases was
in functional class III and IV of NYHA classification.
RESULTS: Good results were obtained in eight patients. The other two were not
different in etiology of heart failure, renal function, serum electrolytics and
associated therapy. Diuresis was independent of the creatinine plasmatic values.
CONCLUSION: In our study, in eight of ten cases, metolazona had additive diuretic
effect when associated to furosemide in patients with congestive heart failure.

PMID: 2631826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Nov;8(11):755-9.

[MB isoenzyme of myocardial creatino-kinase: activity curves in the blood, after 
ischemic cardiopathy surgery].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lousada N, da Silva N, Cunha J, Serra e Melo, Quininha J, Quintanilha M, Roquette
J.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the curve of cardiac creatine-kinase (MB-CK) plasma
activity, in patients with coronary heart disease who were submitted to Coronary 
Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) and/or aneurysmectomy, in order to evaluate the degree
of a eventual myocardial lesion occurring during the first 72 hours after
surgery.
DESIGN: Assay of the plasma MB-CK activity and of the 12 lead electrocardiogram
(EGC) during the first 72 hours after surgery.
SETTING: Patients undergoing surgery in a Department of Cardiac Surgery.
PATIENTS: 49 consecutive patients included in 2 groups: Group A: 38 pts submitted
to CABG. Group B: 11 pts submitted to aneurysmectomy (6 of them with simultaneous
CABG).
INTERVENTIONS: Determination of plasma MB-CK activity and execution of 12 lead
EGC before surgery and at 0, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 72 hours after surgery.
RESULTS: Using as a reference the MB-CK values in a control group undergoing
surgery for either aortic or mitral valvulopathy, the patients in group A were
subdivided: Group A1: 25 pts which curves of MB-CK activity were similar to the
control group; none showed sign of myocardial infarction in the EGC. Group A2: 13
pts which curves of MB-CK activity showed a increased value when compared to
controls (at least, two Standard Deviation above the medium control value). In 6 
of them the EGC were compatible with acute myocardial infarction. Group B
patients were also divided in 2 subgroups: Group B1: 10 pts with a similar MB-CK 
activity to the control group. Group B2: 1 patient with MB-CK activity similar to
the patients in Group A2 and whose EKG showed a pattern of "the new" myocardial
infraction.
CONCLUSIONS: The method used in our work allowed us to define a MB-CK activity
curve that translates the expected variability after surgery in patients
submitted to CABG and/or aneurysmectomy. This curve allows the distinction
between myocardial lesion due to surgical aggression and a ischemic lesion. The
EGC although a method with high specificity has apparently a low sensitivity for 
the detection of myocardial necrosis after CABG. The aneurysmectomy "per se" does
not influence the MB-CK activity.

PMID: 2631823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Nov;89(11):1699-707.

[Performance evaluation of X-ray computed tomography "TCT-700 S". 2].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayakawa Y, Wakoh M, Yamamoto K, Nishikawa K, Enomoto K, Tamura K, Hagiwara C,
Ueno H, Fujimori H, Kohsuge Y, et al.

The performance of the rotate/rotate CT scanner TCT-700 S (Toshiba) was evaluated
on the basis of the item entitled "User's initial acceptance tests (phase II)"
set forth in "Standard of performance evaluation for x-ray computed tomography
(second recommendation)" proposed by Takenaka et al. (1982). This second report
in the series describes measurements of exposure and the relation between
exposure and such other performance aspects as noise and contrast resolution. The
exposure-performance recommendation proposes measurements of average exposure in 
the scanning field and a radial exposure profile.RESULTS: 1. In the case of
multiple scanning, average exposures in the field were uniform because all
surfaces of the perpendicular object were oriented toward the incidence of the
x-ray beam. At a minimum scanning speed of 1.8 second, however, a discrepancy of 
3 times occurred in exposures observed reciprocally from the left and right sides
of the object. This phenomenon indicates that only one-half of the object surface
is oriented toward the x-ray beam and that the x-ray tube and detectors rotate in
mutually opposite directions. In the case of multiple scannings, when slice
thicknesses were 10 mm, 5 mm and 2 mm, average exposures were almost uniform. But
with a slice thickness of 1 mm, average exposure was twice as great. This
measurement indicates inadequate collimation in the case of a 1 mm slice
thickness. These average exposures were roughly proportional to the mAs (product 
of tube current and scan speed) in the range between a minimum of 100 mAs and a
maximum of 1200 mAs. 2. Noise increased in proportion to decrease of average
exposure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2488977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Nov;89(11):1679-97.

[Study of the influence of the anodic potential on metal-components dissolution
from dental alloys].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi H.

This study aims to evaluate the influence of the anodic potential on
metal-components dissolution from dental alloys and is intended to serve as an
aid in the investigation of dental metal eruption (metal allergy). In the
experiments, anodic potentials were applied electrochemically to various dental
alloys in a 0.9% NaCl solution. Thereafter amounts of metal-component dissolution
were measured by means of atomic absorption spectrophotometry. In addition,
relations between metal-component dissolution and electrochemical characteristics
(anodic polarization and charge transfer calculated from current density-time
transients) were considered.RESULTS: 1. Breakdown potentials determined on the
basis of anodic polarization profiles agreed with potentials of remarkable
increase in component dissolution. 2. Current density-time transients gave good
indications of alloys' corrosion tendencies. Correlations between charge transfer
and total amounts of metal-component dissolution were comparatively good. 3.
Metal-component dissolutions in various alloys at fixed anodic potentials 1) Cu
and Zn were found to dissolve slightly from gold alloys (types II and IV) at
potentials above 200 mV (vs SCE). 2) Ag, Pd, Cu, and Zn were found to dissolve
from the Ag-Pd-Cu-Au alloy at potentials above 100 mV. A comparatively large
amount of Zn was released at low potentials. Amounts of Ag and Cu dissolution
increased rapidly at 300 mV and 500 mV respectively. Although traces of it were
detectable at low potentials, dissolution of Pd increased remarkably at 500 mV.
3) Ag, In, and Zn were found to dissolve from the Ag-In-Zn alloy at potentials
above O mV. Amounts of In and Zn dissolution increased above 20 mV. The increase 
was especially remarkable in the case of In. 4) Sn and Zn were found to dissolve 
from the Ag-Sn-Zn alloy at potentials above -200 mV; Ag dissolved from the same
alloy at potentials above 100 mV. Amounts of Sn and Zn dissolution increased at
potentials above 100 mV. This was especially true in the case of Sn. 5) Ni, Cu
and Si were found to dissolve from the soft type Ni-Cr alloy (9.0 wt% Cr) at
potentials above -100 mV. Cr, Mn, and Fe dissolved from the same alloy at
potentials above 0 mV; and Co at potentials above 200 mV. Metal-component
dissolution was greater in the case of this alloy than in those of all the other 
alloys used in this study. A considerable amount fo Ni was released at 0
mV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2488976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1090-2.

Outcome of pregnancies referred to a general practitioner maternity unit in a
district hospital.

Prentice A(1), Walton SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, North Tees General Hospital, Stockton
on Tees, Cleveland.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 2;299(6712):1402.

OBJECTIVE: To audit the outcome of pregnancies booked for confinement in a
general practitioner maternity unit in a district general hospital.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of case records.
SETTING: General practitioner maternity unit in a district general hospital.
PATIENTS: 685 Women referred to a general practitioner unit in 1987.
RESULTS: 315 Nulliparous women and 330 multiparous women were booked for
confinement; 202 women transferred to consultant care before delivery and a
further 104 during labour or after delivery. Recognised risk factors, other than 
nulliparity, rarely predicted the need for transfer. Confinement in the general
practitioner unit was associated with low intervention and good fetal outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The general practitioner maternity unit provides a safe alternative 
for confinement in low risk pregnancies. High rates of transfer deny this
facility to many women who desire confinement in a low technology environment.

PMCID: PMC1837972
PMID: 2511975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1083-6.

Diagnosis and treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in general
practice.

Johnson DB(1), Rowlands CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Brecon Medical Group Practice.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1340.

OBJECTIVE: To audit the first five years of a colposcopy and treatment service
for cervical dysplasia established within a general practice.
DESIGN: A cervical smear register was established to determine which women were
"at risk" of dysplasia. The results of colposcopy and treatment of dysplasia were
analysed.
SETTING: A large rural general practice with community hospital facilities in
mid-Wales.
PATIENTS: 4437 Women at risk in a total practice population of 14,100.
INTERVENTIONS: Colposcopy of women with dyskaryotic smear results, persistent
inflammatory smear results, or vulval warts. Treatment of women with proved
dysplasia by electrodiathermy of the cervix or cone biopsy.
RESULTS: 138 Women with dysplasia were diagnosed over five years: 36 mild, 97
moderate or severe, and five with microinvasion. Despite a 78% smear rate of at
risk women over five years, nine invasive cancers still occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of treatment are acceptable. Cervical dysplasia has
become very common, the risk of a dysplasia in women aged 20-39 who had smear
tests being one in 14 over five years.

PMCID: PMC1837948
PMID: 2511973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1076-9.

Role of community pharmacies in prevention of AIDS among injecting drug misusers:
findings of a survey in England and Wales.

Glanz A(1), Byrne C, Jackson P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Addiction Research Unit, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the current and potential roles of community pharmacists 
in the prevention of AIDS among misusers of injected drugs.
DESIGN: Cross sectional postal survey of a one in four random sample of
registered pharmacies in England and Wales.
SETTING: Project conducted in the addiction research unit of the Institute of
Psychiatry, London.
SUBJECTS: 2469 Community pharmacies in the 15 regional health authorities in
England and Wales.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Willingness of pharmacists to sell injecting equipment to 
known or suspected misusers of drugs; pharmacists' attitudes to syringe exchange 
schemes, keeping a "sharps" box for use by misusers of drugs, and offering face
to face advice and leaflets; and opinions of community pharmacists on their role 
in AIDS prevention and drug misuse.
RESULTS: 1946 Questionnaires were returned, representing a response rate of 79%. 
This fell short of the target of one in four pharmacies in each family
practitioner committee area in England and Wales, and total numbers of
respondents were therefore weighted in inverse proportion to the response rate in
each area. The findings disclosed a substantial demand for injecting equipment by
drug misusers. After weighting of numbers of respondents an estimated 676 of 2434
pharmacies were currently selling injecting equipment and 65 of 2415 (3%) were
participating in local syringe exchange schemes; only 94 of 2410 pharmacies (4%) 
had a sharps box for used equipment. There was a high degree of concern among
pharmacists about particular consequences of drug misusers visiting their
premises, along with a widespread acceptance that the community pharmacist had an
important part to play.
CONCLUSIONS: Promoting the participation of community pharmacists in the
prevention of AIDS among misusers of injected drugs is a viable policy, but
several problems would need to be overcome before it was implemented.

PMCID: PMC1837978
PMID: 2511969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1069-72.

Do treatment protocols improve end results? A study of survival of patients with 
multiple myeloma in Finland.

Karjalainen S(1), Palva I.

Author information: 
(1)Finnish Cancer Registry, Helsinki.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1281.
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 6;300(6716):48-9.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether patients with multiple myeloma treated in three
consecutive clinical trials of chemotherapy of the Finnish Leukaemia Group during
1979-85 had a more favourable prognosis than both patients treated in the trial
area before the trials and those treated in the rest of Finland.
DESIGN: Comparison of the time trend in survival of patients living in the trial 
area with that of patients living in the rest of Finland.
SETTING: Trial area covered 17 of the 21 main hospital districts in Finland
(serving more than two thirds of patients with multiple myeloma).
PATIENTS: 663 Men and 690 women in the trial area and 318 men and 307 women in
the reference area aged under 71 in whom multiple myeloma was diagnosed during
1959-85. In the trial area the disease was diagnosed in 455 men and 493 women in 
1959-78 and in 208 men and 197 women in 1979-85; in the reference area it was
diagnosed in 234 men and 227 women in 1959-78 and in 84 men and 80 women in
1979-85.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Five year cumulative relative survival rates during
1959-85, annual relative survival rates in the first seven years of follow up
during 1979-85, and fitted annual relative survival rates in the first five years
of follow up during 1959-85.
RESULTS: During the first two years of follow up the annual relative survival
rates did not differ between the two areas, but in the next five years of follow 
up patients in the trial area did better than those in the reference area. For
cases diagnosed in 1979-85 the difference in the five year cumulative relative
survival rates between patients in the trial area and those in the reference area
was 10%, those in the trial area doing better. Generalised proportional hazards
regression analysis of the first five years of follow up showed that the patients
in the trial area had a survival advantage over those in the reference area. The 
model with the best fit included year of follow up, time of diagnosis, the joint 
effect of year of follow up and time of diagnosis, and the joint effect of area
and time of diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: The patients in the trial area benefited from the clinical trials,
which suggests that the use of a treatment protocol improves the end results of
treatment. In other words, the results favour a systematic treatment schedule in 
preference to a schedule determined by the free choice of a clinician.

PMCID: PMC1837961
PMID: 2511967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. BMJ. 1989 Oct 21;299(6706):1015-6.

Consultations in general practice: a comparison of patients' and doctors'
satisfaction.

Rashid A(1), Forman W, Jagger C, Mann R.

Author information: 
(1)St Matthew's Medical Centre, Leicester.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1466.

OBJECTIVE: To provide an objective means of assessing patients' and doctors'
satisfaction with a consultation.
DESIGN: Questionnaire study of patients and general practitioners after
consultations.
SETTING: Urban general practice.
SUBJECTS: 250 Patients attending consecutive consultations conducted by five
general practitioners.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Identification of deficiencies within a consultation as
perceived by both doctors and patients.
RESULTS: The doctor's and patient's questionnaires for each consultation were
matched and the results analysed on a group basis. The response rate for
individual questions was high (81-89%). The doctors and patients significantly
disagreed about the doctors' ability to assess and put patients at ease, to offer
explanations and advice on treatment, and to allow expression of emotional
feelings and about the overall benefit that the patients gained from the
consultation. In all cases of disagreement the doctor had a more negative view of
the consultation than the patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of giving structured questionnaires on consultations to 
both patients and doctors could be a useful teaching tool for established doctors
or those in training to improve the quality and sensitivity of care they provide.

PMCID: PMC1837884
PMID: 2511945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. BMJ. 1989 Oct 21;299(6706):1010-2.

Dipstick haematuria and bladder cancer in men over 60: results of a community
study.

Britton JP(1), Dowell AC, Whelan P.

Author information: 
(1)St James's University Hospital, Leeds.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 16;299(6714):1528.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence and relevance of dipstick haematuria in 
a group of men in the community.
DESIGN: Prospective study of elderly men invited to attend a health centre for
urine screening as part of a health check.
SETTING: An inner city health centre in Leeds.
SUBJECTS: 578 Of 855 men aged 60-85 responding to an invitation to participate.
INTERVENTIONS: The subjects had their urine tested with a dipstick (Multistix)
for the presence of blood and then tested their urine once a week for the next 10
weeks. Those with one or more positive test results were offered full urological 
investigation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The prevalence of urological disease in those subjects with
dipstick haematuria.
RESULTS: 78 Men (13%) had dipstick haematuria on a single test and a further 54
(9%) had evidence of dipstick haematuria when testing their urine once a week
during a subsequent 10 week period. Investigation of 87 men disclosed urological 
disease in 45, including four with a bladder tumour and seven with epithelial
dysplasia.
CONCLUSION: Dipstick haematuria is a common incidental finding in men over 60 and
is associated with appreciable urological disease. The introduction of less
invasive methods of investigation, particularly flexible cystoscopy and
ultrasonography, has made investigation of these patients simple and safe and
makes screening for bladder cancer in the community more feasible.

PMCID: PMC1837876
PMID: 2511941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. BMJ. 1989 Oct 21;299(6706):1006-8.

Early mobilisation and outcome in acute sprains of the neck.

McKinney LA.

Author information: 
Accident and Emergency Department, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern
Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the long term effect of early mobilisation exercises in
patients with acute sprains of the neck after road accidents.
DESIGN: Single blind randomised prospective study of patients receiving
physiotherapy, advice on mobilisation, or on an initial period of rest followed
up after two years by postal questionnaire.
SETTING: Accident and emergency department in urban hospital.
PATIENTS: 247 Consecutive patients (mean age at injury 30.6 years) presenting
within 48 hours after injury with no pre-existing disease of the neck or serious 
skeletal injury. Of these, 167 patients responded to the questionnaire; 77 who
responded but had not completed their treatment or review course were included in
the analysis as a fourth group (non-attenders).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Presence of symptoms after two years.
RESULTS: Of the 167 patients (68%) responding, the percentage of patients still
with symptoms was not significantly different in those receiving rest or
physiotherapy (46%, 12/26 v 44%, 24/54), but that in those receiving advice on
early mobilisation was significantly lower (23%, 11/48, p = 0.02). Of the 104
patients without symptoms, 94 (90%) recovered within six months and 62 (60%)
within three months. Patients without symptoms who received advice or
physiotherapy wore a collar for a significantly shorter time than those with
persistent symptoms (mean duration 1.4 (SD 0.7) months v 2.8 (1.6) months, p =
0.005 and 1.6 (1.1) months v 1.8 (1.3) months, p = 0.006 respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Advice to mobilise in the early phase after neck injury reduces the 
number of patients with symptoms at two years and is superior to manipulative
physiotherapy. Prolonged wearing of a collar is associated with persistence of
symptoms.

PMCID: PMC1837927
PMID: 2511939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. BMJ. 1989 Oct 21;299(6706):1003-6.

Reducing the incidence of infection after caesarean section: implications of
prophylaxis with antibiotics for hospital resources.

Mugford M(1), Kingston J, Chalmers I.

Author information: 
(1)National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 9;299(6713):1466-7.
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1282-3.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost effectiveness of giving prophylactic antibiotics
routinely to reduce the incidence of wound infection after caesarean section.
DESIGN: Estimation of cost effectiveness was based, firstly, on a retrospective
overview of 58 controlled trials and, secondly, on evidence about costs derived
from data and observations of practice.
SETTING: Trials included in the overview were from obstetric units in several
different countries, including the United Kingdom. The costing study was based on
data referring to the John Radcliffe Maternity Hospital, Oxford.
SUBJECTS: A total of 7777 women were included in the 58 controlled trials
comparing the effects of giving routine prophylactic antibiotics at caesarean
section with either treatment with a placebo or no treatment. Cost estimates were
based on data on 486 women who had caesarean sections between January and
September 1987.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost effectiveness of prophylaxis with antibiotics.
RESULTS: The odds of wound infection are likely to be reduced by between about 50
and 70% by giving antibiotics routinely at caesarean section. Forty one (8.4%)
women who had caesarean section were coded by the Oxford obstetric data system as
having developed wound infection. The additional average cost of hospital
postnatal care for women with wound infection (compared with women who had had
caesarean section and no wound infection) was estimated to be 716 pounds;
introducing routine prophylaxis with antibiotics would reduce average costs of
postnatal care by between 1300 pounds and 3900/100 pounds caesarean sections (at 
1988 prices), depending on the cost of the antibiotic used and its effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that giving antibiotics routinely at caesarean
section will not only reduce rates of infection after caesarean section but also 
reduce costs.

PMCID: PMC1837925
PMID: 2511938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1989 Oct 21;119(42):1470-8.

[Refractory anasarca].

[Article in German]

Gonvers JJ(1), Delacrétaz F.

Author information: 
(1)Département de médecine interne, Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois,
Lausanne.

In a 68-year-old male hospitalized for a traffic accident physical examination
revealed a left tibial fracture and an asymptomatic left pleural effusion. The
evolution was characterized essentially by the appearance of oedema of the legs, 
ascites, and aggravation of the left pleural effusion with concomitant right
effusion. Immediate therapy consisted of digitalis and diuretics. Several days
later the patient suddenly complained of epigastric pain irradiating to his arms,
followed by vomiting. ECG showed transitory elevation of ST segment in V3 to V5. 
Blood levels of CK and CK-MB were normal. An electrocardiogram showed extensive
antero-septal-apical akinesis and a very small cardiac effusion. Pleural and
abdominal tap revealed the presence of a milky liquid containing 40 g/l proteins,
8.6 mmol/l triglycerides and 2.5 mmol/l cholesterol, with no atypical or tumorous
cells. CAT scan revealed the presence of a retroperitoneal mass extending from
the diaphragm to the iliac crests and apparently enclosing the aorta and the vena
cava and causing bilateral hydronephrosis. The development of chylous ascites
and/or chylothorax indicates the presence of an extrinsic or intrinsic
obstruction of lymphatic drainage or the existence of a laceration or rupture of 
the thoracic canal. Chylous ascites is not a frequent finding, since only 28
cases have been diagnosed in 20 years at the Massachusetts General Hospital and
71 in 30 years at the Mayo Clinic. In these 2 series a tumoral etiology was found
in more than 85% of the cases. The most frequently encountered tumor was lymphoma
followed by cancer of the pancreas, stomach, or other tumors.CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS: 
Retroperitoneal tumor, most probably lymphoma; inferior vena cava compression
syndrome; subacute antero-septal infarction. In spite of the poor general
condition of the patient exploratory laparotomy was performed, and several
specimens were taken from the lymphatic nodes located at the angle of Treitz, in 
the mesentery and the mesocolon and along the celiac axis. HISTOPATHOLOGICAL
DIAGNOSIS: Non-Hodgkin B-cell malignant lymphoma, low-grade, lymphoplasmacytoid
(immunocytoma) according to the Kiel classification, or small lymphocytic,
plasmacytoid according to the International Working Formulation (abdominal lymph 
nodes, liver, epiploon, peritoneum, rectus abdominis muscle).
EVOLUTION: Chemotherapy was instored consisting of a combination of prednisone,
vincristine, and cyclophosphamide. The patient's condition was complicated by
peritonitis. Laparotomy revealed phlegmonous cholecystitis and a perforated
colon. The post-operative course was characterized by septic shock, cardiac and
respiratory insufficiency which resulted in the death of the patient. Autopsy
confirmed the presence of a low-grade lymphoma stage IV (retroperitoneum,
mesentery, cervical, axillary and abdominal lymph nodes, liver, spleen, pancreas,
colon, rectum, kidneys, adrenal glands, bronchi, epicardium). No evidence of an
infarctus or oth

PMID: 2683053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):655-9.

Long-term amphotericin B therapy for disseminated histoplasmosis in patients with
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).

McKinsey DS(1), Gupta MR, Riddler SA, Driks MR, Smith DL, Kurtin PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Research Medical Center, Trinity Lutheran Hospital, University of Missouri-Kansas
School of Medicine, Kansas City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and toxicity of long-term maintenance
amphotericin B therapy in preventing relapses after treatment in patients with
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and disseminated histoplasmosis.
DESIGN: Open, nonrandomized pilot study.
SETTING: Three private, university-affiliated community hospitals.
PATIENTS: We studied 22 consecutive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis and
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Sixteen patients completed the
study, 5 patients died before completing the initial intensive phase of
treatment, and 1 patient received a different treatment regimen.
INTERVENTIONS: Seven patients were treated with an initial intensive course of
1000 mg of amphotericin B, followed by weekly infusions of 50 to 80 mg until a
cumulative dose of 2000 mg was attained; biweekly infusions of 50 to 80 mg were
then continued indefinitely. Nine patients received an initial amphotericin B
course of 2000 mg followed by weekly infusions of 80 mg.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 7 patients in the 1000-mg intensive regimen
group, 6 patients have survived without clinical or laboratory evidence of a
histoplasmosis relapse, and 1 died of unrelated causes. Of the 9 patients in the 
2000-mg intensive regimen group, 7 patients have survived, 1 patient died of a
histoplasmosis relapse, and 1 patient died of other causes. Thus, 13 of 14
patients (93%) who did not die of other causes remained relapse-free. The median 
follow-up period was 14 months (range, 2 to 23 months). No apparent differences
in outcome were observed between patients treated with weekly maintenance
regimens and those treated with biweekly maintenance regimens. Sixty-three
percent of patients developed intravascular device-related complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term, intermittent maintenance amphotericin B therapy in
HIV-infected patients with disseminated histoplasmosis is well tolerated and is
highly effective in suppressing relapses after treatment.

PMID: 2802421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):650-4.

A tuberculostearic acid assay in the diagnosis of sputum smear-negative pulmonary
tuberculosis. A prospective study of bronchoscopic aspirate and lavage specimens.

Pang JA(1), Chan HS, Chan CY, Cheung SW, French GL.

Author information: 
(1)Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin N.T.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the detection of tuberculostearic acid (TBSA) in 
bronchial aspirate and bronchoalveolar lavage specimens is useful for the rapid
diagnosis of active pulmonary tuberculosis in patients suspected of having the
disease.
SETTING: A pulmonary clinic in a teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Forty patients suspected of active pulmonary tuberculosis but who
failed to produce sputum or whose sputum smears were negative for acid-fast
bacilli on at least 3 occasions, 29 of whom were subsequently confirmed to have
tuberculosis. A group of 13 patients who were having fiberoptic bronchoscopy for 
other reasons served as controls.
INTERVENTION: All patients had fiberoptic bronchoscopy; bronchial aspirate,
bronchoalveolar lavage, and sputum specimens were obtained when possible.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All specimens were examined microscopically for
acid-fast bacilli, cultured for mycobacteria, and assayed for TBSA by gas
chromatography and mass spectrometry with selected ion monitoring. Only 4 of the 
29 patients with tuberculosis were diagnosed by direct microscopy compared with
26 by TBSA assay. In 2 patients who required surgical biopsy for conventional
diagnosis, the TBSA test was positive. There were no false-positive TBSA results 
in the 13 controls, but 2 of 5 sputum specimens from the 11 test patients in whom
tuberculosis was excluded were falsely positive, probably because of
contamination with mouth flora. Because sputum can rarely be obtained from these 
patients and may give false-positive results, it is not a good specimen for TBSA 
assay. Sensitivities and specificities of the test for the other specimens were
as follows: aspirate, 0.52 (CI, 0.32 to 0.71) and 1.00 (CI, 0.75 to 1.00);
lavage, 0.68 (CI, 0.46 to 0.85) and 1.00 (CI, 0.84 to 1.00); aspirate and lavage 
combined, 0.79 (CI, 0.60 to 0.92) and 1.00 (CI, 0.86 to 1.00).
CONCLUSIONS: The TBSA assay for bronchial aspirate and bronchoalveolar lavage
fluid is useful for rapidly diagnosing "smear-negative" pulmonary tuberculosis.
In these specimens it is highly specific and more sensitive than microscopy. This
assay could be used to diagnose other mycobacterial infections, however, it
cannot distinguish among species.

PMID: 2802420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):660-70.

Carotid endarterectomy.

Cebul RD(1), Whisnant JP.

Author information: 
(1)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital, Ohio.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the usefulness of doing carotid endarterectomy in
patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic carotid artery disease.
DESIGN: Synthesis and summarization of data on the untreated course of
cerebrovascular disease, and review of selected evidence and expert opinion on
the risks and benefits of endarterectomy and medical therapy.
MAIN RESULTS: There is a large body of data related to the untreated course of
cerebrovascular disease, the efficacy of aspirin in patients with transient
ischemic attacks, and the comparative responsiveness to surgery of symptomatic
patients with different presentations. Randomized trials in progress will
increase the knowledge about the effects of aspirin in asymptomatic patients, the
comparative efficacy of aspirin and endarterectomy in asymptomatic and
symptomatic patients, and the factors that influence surgical risk. Clinicians
and investigators wish to define a more limited and precise set of indications
for carotid endarterectomy. In setting standards, attention has properly focussed
on "maximum acceptable complication rates," native stroke risk, and surgical
efficacy for patients with different clinical presentations. Illustrative,
acceptable surgical mortality rates are less than 1%, and stroke-related
morbidity is less than 3% for patients who have had a transient ischemic attack; 
surgical mortality and stroke-related morbidity are less than 2% for patients
with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Medical comorbidity and angiographic findings
are important factors affecting specific recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS: Data from ongoing clinical trials will provide a more scientific
foundation for recommendations about when to do carotid endarterectomy. Current
evidence suggests that fewer endarterectomies should be done, and those on the
basis of a more precise set of indications. Clinicians should consider the
clinical presentation, the patient's comorbidity and native stroke risk,
angiographic findings, and the experience of the surgical team.

PMID: 2679284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1989 Oct 15;44(20):609-12.

[Endoscopic papillotomy in the treatment of choledocholithiasis--technic,
indications, results].

[Article in German]

Schulz HJ.

Author information: 
Klinik für Innere Medizin Theodor Brugsch, Bereiches Medizin (Charité) der
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.

Endoscopic papillotomy (EPT) has good short- and long-term results in the
non-operative treatment of common bile duct stones. Advantages are low risk,
short hospital stay and short unfit to work. On the basis of the literature and
own experiences that derive from 2,500 EPT the author discusses preparation,
technique, indications, contraindications, complications, and results of the
procedure. EPT successfully had been performed in 98.3% of cases. All bile duct
stones could be removed in 92%.INDICATIONS: choledocholithiasis 2013 (456 with
gallbladder in situ, 24 with acute biliary pancreatitis), benign papillary
stenosis 125, papillary carcinoma 57, other indications 305.
COMPLICATIONS: 4.6% (115); bleeding 36, pancreatitis 36, cholangitis/stone
impaction 30, retroduodenal perforation 13; urgent operation 1.2% (30), mortality
0.5% (12).

PMID: 2609694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):958-60.

Ethnic differences in general practitioner consultations.

Balarajan R(1), Yuen P, Soni Raleigh V.

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health Research Unit, University of Surrey, Guildford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):930-1.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the levels of general practitioner consultations among the 
different ethnic groups resident in Britain.
DESIGN: The study was based on the British general household surveys of 1983-5
and included 63,966 people aged 0-64. Odds ratios were derived for consultation
by ethnic group by using logistic regression analysis adjusting for age and
socioeconomic group.
SETTING: The results relate to people living in private households in England,
Scotland, and Wales.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age and socioeconomic class, consultation among
adults aged 16-64 was highest among people of Pakistani origin with odds ratios
of 2.82 (95% confidence interval 1.86 to 4.28) for men and 1.85 (1.22 to 2.81)
for women. Significantly higher consultations were also seen for men of West
Indian and Indian origin (odds ratios 1.65 and 1.53 respectively). Ethnic
differences were greatest at ages 45-64, when consultation rates in people of
Pakistani, Indian, and West Indian origin were much higher in both sexes compared
with white people.
CONCLUSIONS: The ethnic composition of inner cities is likely to influence the
workload and case mix of general practitioners working in these areas.

PMCID: PMC1837779
PMID: 2508952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):953-7.

Ethnic differences in consultation rates in urban general practice.

Gillam SJ(1), Jarman B, White P, Law R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Practice, St Mary's Hospital Medical School, Lisson Grove
Health Centre, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):930-1.
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 25;299(6711):1338.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the patterns of consultations with the general
practitioner among different ethnic groups and the outcome of these
consultations.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of data from one urban group general practice
collected during 1979-81 as part of a research project in seven practices.
SETTING: Group general practice in the London borough of Brent with a list size
of 10,877 patients in July 1980.
SUBJECTS: Patients registered with the practice during the 23 months to April
1981 who accounted for 67,197 consultations.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Ethnic state, sex and social class distribution, and
diagnosis of patients consulting and frequency of consultations analysed as
standardised consultation ratios and standardised patient consultation ratios.
RESULTS: Compared with other ethnic groups male Asians (that is, including those 
born in Britain and those originating from the Indian subcontinent and east
Africa) had a substantially increased standardised patient consultation ratio.
Consultation rates for mental disorders--in particular, anxiety and
depression--were reduced in all groups of immigrant descent. West Indians
consulted more frequently for hypertension and asthma, and their children less
frequently with otitis media. Asians consulted more frequently with upper
respiratory tract infections and non-specific symptoms. Native British patients
were more likely to leave the surgery with a follow up appointment, prescription,
or certificate.
CONCLUSION: Notwithstanding the limitations of this study, ethnic differences in 
consultation rates were apparent. These differences require further investigation
if the needs of minority ethnic groups are not to be overlooked.

PMCID: PMC1837829
PMID: 2508951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):946-9.

Breast feeding and lower respiratory tract illness in the first year of life.
Group Health Medical Associates.

Wright AL(1), Holberg CJ, Martinez FD, Morgan WJ, Taussig LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Research Center, Tucson, Arizona 85724.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relation between breast feeding and subsequent
experience of lower respiratory tract illness.
DESIGN: Prospective (from well child visits) and retrospective (from maternal
recall) study of breast feeding and prospective assessment by paediatricians of
lower respiratory tract illness in infants during first year of life.
SETTING: Health maintenance organisation.
PARTICIPANTS: Over 1000 infants who were healthy at birth and whose parents used 
the paediatricians of a local health maintenance organisation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Duration of breast feeding and type of lower respiratory
tract illness (wheezing and non-wheezing) at different age intervals during the
first year of life.
RESULTS: Breast feeding was associated with a decreased incidence of wheezing
illnesses only in the first four months of life. Interactions existed between
breast feeding and sharing a room, being Mexican American, and being a boy.
Multivariate techniques showed that after controlling for a variety of factors
children who received minimal breast milk had a greater risk of early wheezing
illnesses; the risk was further increased by simultaneous exposure to sharing a
room.
CONCLUSION: Breast feeding seems to protect against wheezing respiratory tract
illnesses in the first four months of life, particularly when other risk factors 
are present.

PMCID: PMC1837795
PMID: 2508946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):942-5.

Acute and chronic arterial and venous effects of captopril in congestive cardiac 
failure.

Capewell S(1), Taverner D, Hannan WJ, Muir AL.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Medicine, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1283.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether captopril alters peripheral venous tone in
patients with congestive cardiac failure.
DESIGN: Open study of patients at start of captopril treatment and three months
later.
SETTING: A hospital gamma camera laboratory.
PATIENTS: 16 Men with congestive cardiac failure in New York Heart Association
class II or III, aged 57-73.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were initially given 500 micrograms sublingual glyceryl
trinitrate followed by 25 mg oral captopril. The study was then repeated after
three months' captopril treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Previously validated non-invasive radionuclide techniques 
were used to measure changes in central haemodynamic variables and peripheral
venous volumes in the calf.
RESULTS: After 25 mg captopril there were falls in blood pressure and relative
systemic vascular resistance and increases in cardiac index and left ventricular 
ejection fraction. This was accompanied by a 16% increase in peripheral venous
volume (95% confidence interval 13.4% to 18.4%, p less than 0.01), which compared
with an 11% increase after 500 micrograms glyceryl trinitrate (10% to 12%, p less
than 0.01). Eleven patients were restudied after three months' continuous
treatment with captopril. The resting venous volume was higher than it had been
initially, by about 10%, and increased by a further 8.4% after 25 mg captopril
(5.4% to 11.4%, p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Captopril is an important venodilator. Venous and arterial
dilatation are produced short term and during long term treatment.

PMCID: PMC1837786
PMID: 2508945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):939-42.

Smoking and occupational allergy in workers in a platinum refinery.

Venables KM(1), Dally MB, Nunn AJ, Stevens JF, Stephens R, Farrer N, Hunter JV,
Stewart M, Hughes EG, Newman Taylor AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational Medicine, Brompton Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that smoking increases the risk of
sensitisation by occupational allergens.
DESIGN: Historical prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Platinum refinery.
SUBJECTS: 91 Workers (86 men) who started work between 1 January 1973 and 31
December 1974 and whose smoking habit and atopic state (on skin prick testing
with common allergens) had been noted at joining.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Results of skin prick tests with platinum salts carried
out routinely every three to six months and records of any respiratory symptoms
noted by the refinery's occupational health service. Follow up was until 1980 or 
until leaving refinery work, whichever was earlier.
RESULTS: 57 Workers smoked and 29 were atopic; 22 developed a positive result on 
skin testing with platinum salts and 49 developed symptoms, including all 22
whose skin test result was positive. Smoking was the only significant predictor
of a positive result on skin testing with platinum salts and its effect was
greater than that of atopy; the estimated relative risks (95% confidence
interval) when both were included in the regression model were: smokers versus
non-smokers 5.05 (1.68 to 15.2) and atopic versus non-atopic 2.29 (0.88 to 5.99).
Number of cigarettes smoked per day was the only significant predictor of
respiratory symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Smokers are at increased risk of sensitisation by platinum salts.

PMCID: PMC1837835
PMID: 2508944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. BMJ. 1989 Oct 7;299(6704):892-6.

Improved prognosis since 1969 of myocardial infarction treated in a coronary care
unit: lack of relation with changes in severity.

Hopper JL(1), Pathik B, Hunt D, Chan WW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Melbourne, Faculty of Medicine, Epidemiology Unit, Melbourne,
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To study changes from 1969 to 1983 in the prognosis of patients with
acute myocardial infarction treated in a coronary care unit.
DESIGN: Mortality follow up of all patients with definite acute myocardial
infarction.
SETTING: The coronary care unit of the Royal Melbourne Hospital, a tertiary
referral centre.
SUBJECTS: 4253 Patients (3366 men, 887 women) admitted from 1969 to 1983.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Mortality recorded at discharge from hospital and 12 months
after admission.
RESULTS: Details of clinical findings, history, electrocardiograms, arrhythmias, 
and radiological findings were recorded on admission. Mean ages were 63 for women
and 57 for men, and women had haemodynamically more severe infarcts than men. In 
the later years patients were older and had less severe infarcts. Overall,
hospital mortality in men was 16.7% in 1969-73 and 8.5% in 1979-83 and declined
in all grades of the Norris and Killip infarct severity indices compared with a
constant 19.2% in women. Even after adjustment for age and severity by logistic
regression, hospital mortality fell in men by an average of 8% (95% confidence
interval 4% to 11%) a year but remained constant in women. By 1983 male mortality
was 60% that of women of similar age and comparable severity of infarction.
Mortality of hospital survivors at 12 months declined by 7% (4% to 9%) a year in 
both sexes, even after adjustment for age and severity, with a male to female
mortality ratio of about 0.8. New indices were derived to predict mortality in
hospital and at 12 months.
CONCLUSION: The observed declines in mortality cannot be explained by changes in 
severity of infarction or in prognostic characteristics of patients.

PMCID: PMC1837732
PMID: 2510880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. BMJ. 1989 Oct 7;299(6704):889-92.

Dietary calcium, physical activity, and risk of hip fracture: a prospective
study.

Wickham CA(1), Walsh K, Cooper C, Barker DJ, Margetts BM, Morris J, Bruce SA.

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology Unit, Southampton General Hospital.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 4;299(6708):1165.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether low dietary calcium intake and physical
inactivity are risk factors for hip fracture among subjects aged 65 and over.
DESIGN: Fifteen year follow up study of a large cohort of randomly selected
elderly people living in the community, who had taken part in the 1973-4 survey
of the Department of Health and Social Security, and for whom dietary and other
data were recorded at initial interview and medical assessment.
SETTING: Eight areas in Britain (England (five), Wales (one), and Scotland (two].
SUBJECTS: 1688 Subjects living in the community, of whom 1419 subjects (720 men
and 699 women) agreed to participate. 1356 Subjects completed a seven day dietary
record and 983 (542 men and 441 women) agreed to be assessed by a geriatrician.
RESULTS: Incidence of hip fracture increased with age and was higher in women
than men. Comparison with matched controls showed no evidence that the risk of
hip fracture was related to calcium intake: the odds ratio for the lowest third
of dietary calcium compared with the highest was 0.7 (95% confidence interval 0.1
to 3.9) after adjustment for smoking and body mass index. The adjusted odds ratio
for the lowest third of outdoor activity compared with the highest was 4.3 (0.7
to 26.8), and that for grip strength was 3.9 (0.7 to 23.0).
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced intake of dietary calcium does not seem to be a risk factor 
for hip fracture. Further evidence is provided that physical activity in the
elderly protects against hip fracture.

PMCID: PMC1837771
PMID: 2510879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. BMJ. 1989 Oct 7;299(6704):881-6.

Verapamil versus hydrochlorothiazide in the treatment of hypertension: results of
long term double blind comparative trial. Verapamil versus Diuretic (VERDI) Trial
Research Group.

Holzgreve H(1), Distler A, Michaelis J, Philipp T, Wellek S.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, University of Munich, Federal Republic of Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy and tolerability of hydrochlorothiazide,
sustained release verapamil, and their combination in patients with mild to
moderate hypertension.
DESIGN: Randomised multicentre trial of 48 weeks' duration with a double blind
comparison of hydrochlorothiazide and verapamil followed by an open trial of
combined treatment for patients not achieving the target diastolic blood pressure
(less than 90 mm Hg) during treatment with a single drug.
SETTING: Outpatient departments in 10 clinics and 10 private practices of general
practitioners or internists.
PATIENTS: 369 Hypertensive patients with a diastolic blood pressure of 95-120 mm 
Hg during a placebo run in period of two weeks.
INTERVENTIONS: Initial treatment consisted of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n =
187) or 120 mg sustained release verapamil (n = 182) once daily (regimen I). If
the target diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg was not achieved within
four weeks doses were increased to 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide or 240 mg verapamil 
once (regimen II) and twice daily (regimen III). Patients not achieving target
blood pressure were given the combination of hydrochlorothiazide and
verapamil--that is, 25 and 240 mg once (regimen IV) and twice daily (regimen V).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Blood pressure determined with a device permitting
automatic repeated measurements with printouts.
RESULTS: After eight weeks of treatment with a single drug 76 out of 178 (43%)
and 101 out of 175 (58%) patients achieved the target blood pressure with
hydrochlorothiazide and verapamil, respectively. During follow up until 48 weeks 
patients treated with verapamil reached the target blood pressure more often and 
at lower doses and were less likely to switch to combination treatment than
patients randomised to hydrochlorothiazide treatment. Adding verapamil to
hydrochlorothiazide was more effective than the addition of hydrochlorothiazide
to verapamil. At the end of the study 42 out of 169 (25%) and 73 out of 163 (45%)
patients initially randomised to hydrochlorothiazide and verapamil, respectively,
were at target blood pressure without combination treatment. After adding
verapamil to hydrochlorothiazide or hydrochlorothiazide to verapamil an
additional 58 (34%) and 29 (18%) patients reached the target blood pressure,
respectively. Altogether 92 out of 332 (28%) patients failed to achieve target
blood pressure with regimen V. There were four, 10, seven, and seven withdrawals 
due to possible adverse effects to treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, verapamil,
combining verapamil with hydrochlorothiazide, and combining hydrochlorothiazide
with verapamil, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In doses currently used in antihypertensive treatment verapamil was 
more effective than hydrochlorothiazide as a single agent and in combination in
mild to moderate hypertension, whereas withdrawal rates caused by side effects
possibly related to treatment were similar.

PMCID: PMC1837749
PMID: 2510877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Am Fam Physician. 1989 Oct;40(4):115-8.

Childhood immunizations. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.

[No authors listed]

RECOMMENDATION: all children without established contraindications should receive
diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP), oral poliovirus (OPV), measles-mumps-rubella 
(MMR) and conjugate Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccines in accordance with
recommended schedules. A tetanus-diphtheria toxoid (Td) booster should be
administered at 14 to 16 years of age and every ten years thereafter.

PMID: 2801458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Am Fam Physician. 1989 Oct;40(4):123-9.

Screening for HIV. U.S. Preventive Services task Force.

[No authors listed]

RECOMMENDATION: Screening for infection with human immunodeficiency virus should 
be offered periodically to persons seeking treatment for sexually transmitted
diseases, intravenous drug users, homosexual and bisexual men, and other at
increased risk of infection. Testing should also be offered to pregnant women (or
women contemplating pregnancy) who are at increased risk for HIV infection.
Testing should not be performed in the absence of informed consent and adequate
pretest and post-test counseling. Clinicians should be careful to use proper
tests and qualified laboratories. Seropositive persons require adequate post-test
counseling, and drug and sexual partners should be properly notified. Persons
with negative test results also require counseling and repeat testing when
appropriate.

PMID: 2679009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):408-10.

Clinical and immunologic features of livedo reticularis in lupus: a case-control 
study.

Englert HJ(1), Loizou S, Derue GG, Walport MJ, Hughes GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, London, England.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Jun;88(6):699.

PURPOSE: We recently noticed the occurrence of both livedo and elevated
anticardiolipin antibody levels in a small number of patients with lupus. The
purpose of our study was two-fold: (1) to investigate whether anticardiolipin
antibodies were more common in lupus patients with livedo than in those without; 
and (2) to determine if the features of Sneddon's syndrome (livedo and
cerebrovascular disease) also were found in patients with lupus.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this case-control study of lupus patients without
significant renal impairment, 29 patients with livedo reticularis (cases) were
compared clinically and immunologically with 29 patients without livedo
(controls).
RESULTS: Both groups shared many disease characteristics and were similar in age 
and sex. However, they differed markedly in other respects. Elevated
anticardiolipin antibody levels were significantly more common in the cases.
Indeed, 81% of all cases from our study sample had elevated anticardiolipin
levels. A history of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia--clinical associates of the 
anticardiolipin antibody--was also significantly more common in cases than in
controls. The relative odds of livedo reticularis were 23-fold greater in those
with elevated anticardiolipin levels than in those without these antibodies. The 
estimated proportion of livedo-positive patients with elevated anticardiolipin
antibodies in a general lupus population without significant renal impairment was
0.77.
CONCLUSION: The association between livedo reticularis and cerebrovascular
disease, originally described by Sneddon in otherwise healthy individuals, also
applies to lupus patients. The presence of elevated anticardiolipin antibody
levels in 10 of 11 such patients suggests that the anticardiolipin antibody may
be of pathogenetic importance in the manifestations of Sneddon's syndrome in
lupus and also possibly in the idiopathic form of this disease.

PMID: 2801732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):401-4.

Survival following mechanical ventilation for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: a different perspective.

Efferen LS(1), Nadarajah D, Palat DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York.

PURPOSE: Pulmonary infection is a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in
patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia (PCP) is the predominant infection in these patients. In those patients
who experience progression to respiratory failure from PCP, the reported
mortality rate has been between 87% to 100%. This, in addition to the ultimately 
fatal outcome of patients with AIDS, has led many physicians to question the
advisability of instituting mechanical support for respiratory failure in the
setting of PCP. It had been our impression that the outcome of patients on our
service was not as poor as was generally reported. We therefore undertook a
retrospective analysis of our clinical experience.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the clinical course of patients admitted to our
service between December 1984 and June 1988 who required intubation and
mechanical ventilation for PCP or presumed PCP.
RESULTS: Thirty-three cases were identified with 18 survivors (54.5%) and 15
non-survivors (45.5%). Twenty-five of the 33 patients were intubated for their
first episode of PCP, with 16 survivors (64%), whereas the remaining eight
patients were intubated for their second episode of PCP, with two survivors
(25%). We were not able to identify any parameters that predicted survival,
although the serum lactate dehydrogenase level was useful in following the
response to treatment.
CONCLUSION: It is our belief that there is a reasonable chance of survival for
patients requiring mechanical ventilation for PCP. We question the wisdom of
avoiding intubation and mechanical ventilation altogether in patients with PCP
due to the presumption of fatality in this clinical situation.

PMID: 2801731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):396-400.

Histoplasma capsulatum polysaccharide antigen detection in diagnosis and
management of disseminated histoplasmosis in patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Wheat LJ(1), Connolly-Stringfield P, Kohler RB, Frame PT, Gupta MR.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University Medical Center, Wishard Memorial Hospital, Indianapolis.

PURPOSE: Disseminated histoplasmosis is a serious and often rapidly progressive, 
opportunistic infection in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS), supporting the importance of rapid diagnostic tests. We investigated
Histoplasma capsulatum polysaccharide antigen (HPA) detection, a promising new
method for rapid diagnosis of histoplasmosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-one cases of disseminated histoplasmosis in patients 
with AIDS form the basis of this report. Control cases were patients with AIDS
who had other opportunistic infections and whose cultures were negative for H.
capsulatum. A slightly modified radioimmunoassay procedure was used to measure
the levels of HPA in urine and blood specimens.
RESULTS: High levels of HPA were detected in the urine of 59 of 61 (96.7%) and
the blood of 37 of 47 (78.7%) patients with AIDS complicated by disseminated
histoplasmosis. Treatment with amphotericin B reduced levels of HPA in the urine 
in 19 of 21 (90.5%) and the serum of all 10 patients tested. HPA levels increased
in the urine in all eight and in the serum in all five patients with
culture-proven relapse.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, HPA detection offers a rapid method for diagnosing
disseminated histoplasmosis. Additional experience is required to establish the
role of this test in monitoring the effects of treatment and in identifying
relapse in patients with AIDS.

PMID: 2801730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):389-95.

Course and prognosis of human immunodeficiency virus-associated nephropathy.

Carbone L(1), D'Agati V, Cheng JT, Appel GB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons,
New York, New York.

PURPOSE: Patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have been 
described to have an unusual form of renal disease known as HIV-associated
nephropathy. This condition is characterized by severe proteinuria, rapid
progression to renal insufficiency, and a morphologic pattern of focal segmental 
glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) on renal biopsy. Despite increasing awareness of this
entity, the epidemiology and clinical course of HIV-associated nephropathy are
not yet well defined. We therefore decided to study HIV-infected patients with
this biopsy-proven pattern of focal sclerosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using life-table analysis, we evaluated the clinical
features and course of 26 patients with HIV infection and biopsy-proven FSGS and 
compared them with those in 24 subjects with HIV infection who had no glomerular 
disease at autopsy.
RESULTS: The group with FSGS had a higher percentage of blacks (96% versus 46%)
and intravenous drug abusers (42% versus 17%), and had a higher mean serum
creatinine level (5.4 mg/dL versus 1.0 mg/dL) than the group of HIV-infected
subjects without glomerular disease. At the time of diagnosis of FSGS, six
patients had clinical acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), eight had
AIDS-related complex (ARC), and 12 patients had no evidence of AIDS or ARC. The
progression to end-stage renal disease for all patients was rapid, with a median 
time to dialysis of 10.9 weeks. Duration of patient survival was dependent upon
the stage of HIV infection at the time of diagnosis of renal disease. Patients
who presented with AIDS had a median survival of 1.9 months, compared to a median
survival of 3.6 months for those with ARC and 9.7 months for initially
asymptomatic HIV carriers (p less than 0.05). Fifteen patients either presented
with or developed AIDS during the course of the study, and all died as a
consequence of their immunodeficiency. Survival curves from the diagnosis of AIDS
to death were similar in the group with HIV-associated nephropathy (7.3 weeks)
compared to the control AIDS group without renal disease (6.9 weeks).
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that FSGS associated with HIV infection can occur
before other manifestations of AIDS, is more common in blacks and in intravenous 
drug abusers, and is rapidly progressive to uremia. Patient survival is dependent
upon the stage of HIV infection. These findings may prove useful in devising more
effective strategies for the care of this growing patient population.

PMID: 2801729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):382-8.

Autonomic influence on cardiovascular performance in diabetic subjects.

Roy TM(1), Peterson HR, Snider HL, Cyrus J, Broadstone VL, Fell RD, Rothchild AH,
Samols E, Pfeifer MA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Louisville, School of Medicine, Kentucky.

PURPOSE: Cardiomyopathy, coronary artery atherosclerosis, or autonomic neuropathy
may affect the cardiovascular performance of the diabetic patient. To evaluate
the role of parasympathetic nervous system activity on cardiovascular
performance, 25 diabetic subjects who lacked symptoms, signs, or objective
measurements of ischemia or cardiomyopathy were studied.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Diabetic subjects were classified according to their RR
variation, an index of cardiac parasympathetic nervous system activity. Fourteen 
diabetic subjects had a normal RR variation of greater than 30 (D-NOR), and 11
diabetic patients had an abnormal RR variation of less than 20 (D-ABN). Fifteen
age- and weight-matched, healthy, nondiabetic subjects (NOR) constituted the
control group. All subjects had oxygen consumption, multigated acquisition
determination of cardiac output, and work product measured before and during
supine bicycle maximum exercise testing.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the resting cardiac output among the groups. 
Resting work product, however, was greatest in the D-ABN group when compared with
performance in the other two groups (D-ABN: 11,500 +/- 800; D-NOR: 9,000 +/- 600;
NOR: 8,700 +/- 400; p less than 0.0025). This was due to an increase in both
heart rate (p less than 0.025) and systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.015).
In the diabetic subjects, there was an inverse relationship between the RR
variation and resting work product (r = 0.47, n = 25, p less than 0.005). In
response to exercise, the percent increase in cardiac output at matched percent
maximum oxygen uptake was greatest in the NOR, D-NOR, and D-ABN groups,
respectively (analysis of variance, p less than 0.01). In the diabetic subjects, 
there was a significant relationship between the RR variation and the maximum
percent change in cardiac output (r = 0.41, n = 25, p less than 0.02). Compared
with the NOR group, the maximum increase in work product was impaired in diabetic
subjects (p less than 0.002) and not different between the D-NOR and D-ABN
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in resting work product and the poor cardiac output
responses to exercise in the D-ABN group are due to a decrease in cardiac
parasympathetic nervous system activity and can be suggested by an abnormal RR
variation. This index of parasympathetic nervous system activity can help the
physician identify that subset of diabetic patients that may need special
consideration when exercise training is prescribed.

PMID: 2801728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):371-6.

Utility of echocardiography in patients with suspected mitral valve prolapse.

Hershman WY(1), Moskowitz MA, Marton KI, Balady GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02118.

PURPOSE: Echocardiography has become a widely utilized test since its
introduction into clinical medicine in the early 1970s. Although it has
frequently been performed in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse
(MVP), its usefulness in this setting has not been systematically studied. To
investigate the use and value of echocardiography in patients suspected of having
MVP, we conducted a prospective study in which physicians were interviewed before
and after ordering echocardiographic testing for patients in whom there was a
suspicion of MVP.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population included consecutive patients referred
to the echocardiography laboratory at Boston University Medical Center because of
suspected MVP between January 1 and December 31, 1987. Two standardized telephone
interviews were conducted with the physician most responsible for ordering the
echocardiogram. The following information was obtained during the first
interview, which was always conducted before the echocardiogram was performed:
patient demographic and clinical data; the reason for ordering the
echocardiogram; the physician's most likely clinical diagnosis; the physician's
estimate of the likelihood that the patient had MVP; and the physician's proposed
management plans. After the referring physician received the echocardiographic
results, a second interview was conducted to determine changes in the most likely
clinical diagnosis and management plans. The impact of the echocardiogram on
diagnosis and management was evaluated by comparing physician responses before
and after reception of echocardiographic results. Receiver operating
characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed to assess the physician's skills at 
distinguishing patients with echocardiographic-documented MVP from those without 
MVP.
RESULTS: A total of 106 echocardiograms were ordered by 45 different physicians. 
More than 80% of all echocardiograms were ordered to address diagnostic or
therapeutic concerns. On echocardiography, 47 (44%) patients were found to have
MVP, six (6%) had mitral regurgitation without prolapse, and 53 (50%) had normal 
results. On the basis of the ROC curve analysis, the physician's ability to
discriminate between patients with and without echocardiographic MVP varied
significantly by physician specialty and practice setting. The echocardiographic 
results led to a change in diagnosis in 59 (56%) patients. A change in management
occurred in 29 (27%) patients, with 25 of these 29 changes (86%) related to the
initiation or discontinuation of antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiography frequently alters diagnostic assessments and leads 
to therapeutic changes in some patients suspected of having MVP. However, the
benefits of such changes have not yet been demonstrated.

PMID: 2801727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):411-20.

Complement abnormalities in multiple myeloma.

Zurlo JJ(1), Schechter GP, Fries LF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

PURPOSE: Patients with multiple myeloma have been shown to have defective
opsonization and C3 deposition. Previous studies have suggested that defective C3
deposition may be related to a failure of C3 activation in myeloma serum, the
mechanism of which is unknown. We therefore decided to investigate the underlying
mechanism responsible for the failure in C3 activation and deposition.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 10 patients from whom a total of 12 
serum specimens were obtained. Normal serum was prepared from a pool of serum
specimens in four healthy male donors. We evaluated, in vitro, the kinetics of C3
deposition onto zymosan using radiolabeled C3 under various conditions. We also
measured the serum levels of a variety of complement components using standard
methods.
RESULTS: Five of 10 patients' sera demonstrated poor C3 deposition onto zymosan
at all time points, whereas an additional two showed poor C3 deposition at early 
time points but a rebound to normal by 30 minutes. Multiple components of the
classical and alternative complement pathways were decreased in many patients,
with the most striking abnormalities occurring in those with the poorest C3
deposition. No single complement component abnormality was found to be common to 
the group. Elevations in Bb fragment concentration strongly suggest in vivo
activation as the likely mechanism for depletion of alternative pathway
components; the mechanism for classical pathway abnormalities is less clear.
There was an inverse correlation between paraprotein concentration and abnormal
C3 deposition (p less than 0.0001) and C3 (p less than 0.0005) and C4 (p less
than 0.0001) concentrations. However, no consistent evidence of fluid-phase
complement consumption was present.
CONCLUSION: The defect in C3 activation and deposition in multiple myeloma cannot
be explained on the basis of a single complement component abnormality but rather
is due to a heterogeneous group of complement abnormalities. Although no
correlation between in vitro abnormalities and clinical status was identified in 
this small group of patients, it is likely that the described complement defects 
play an important role in defective host defense in multiple myeloma.

PMID: 2679074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):421-4.

Detection of X-linked lymphoproliferative disease using molecular and
immunovirologic markers.

Purtilo DT(1), Grierson HL, Ochs H, Skare J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 68105-1065.

PURPOSE, PATIENTS, AND METHODS: Detection of males affected with the X-linked
lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) was sought using immunovirologic and molecular 
genetic linkage techniques. The study population consisted of 20 males in six
families with XLP.
RESULTS: Concordance for detection of affected males was 100% when linkage
analysis using DXS42 and DXS37 DNA probes and antibody responses to challenge
with bacteriophage phi X174 were both determined. Most affected males showing IgG
subclass immune deficiency could not produce antibodies to Epstein-Barr virus
nuclear antigen and had deficient responses to challenge with bacteriophage phi
X174.
CONCLUSION: Use of only one of the techniques described can fail to lead to the
diagnosis of XLP, because problems can prevail with each individual
determination.

PMID: 2572169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):377-81.

Usefulness of total 12-lead QRS voltage compared with other criteria for
determining left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: analysis
of 57 patients studied at necropsy.

Dollar AL(1), Roberts WC.

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
20892.

PURPOSE: The sensitivity of electrocardiographic indicators of left ventricular
(LV) hypertrophy is known to be rather poor. To date, no study has undertaken a
comparison of the various electrocardiographic criteria for LV hypertrophy among 
patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC). In this study, we compared the
sensitivity of the total 12-lead QRS amplitude with the sensitivity of certain
standard electrocardiographic criteria for LV hypertrophy in necropsy patients
with HC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 57 hearts were studied. The last technically
satisfactory electrocardiogram available from each necropsy patient was used.
Electrocardiographic criteria employed to diagnose LV hypertrophy included the
Sokolow and Lyon index, the Romhilt-Estes voltage criteria, the Romhilt-Estes
point score, the ratio of RV6:RV5 greater than 1 proposed by Holt and Spodick,
and a method utilizing the sum of the amplitudes of the QRS complexes of all 12
leads.
RESULTS: The total 12-lead QRS amplitude ranged from 66 to 339 mm (mean: 197 mm) 
(10 mm = 1 mV). Using 175 mm as the upper limit of normal, this technique yielded
a sensitivity of 53%, which was the highest sensitivity of any criteria tested.
The Sokolow-Lyon index had a sensitivity of 39%; the Romhilt-Estes voltage
criteria, 37%; the Romhilt-Estes point score system, 49%; and the criterion of
RV6 more than RV5, 39%. No correlation was found between total 12-lead QRS
voltage and heart weight, LV free wall thickness, LV peak systolic and
end-diastolic pressures, or LV outflow tract peak systolic pressure gradient. The
10 patients (18%) with transmural LV scars had significantly lower total 12-lead 
QRS voltage than did the 48 patients (78%) without such scars (155 mm versus 205 
mm, p = 0.02).
CONCLUSION: Total 12-lead QRS amplitude more than 175 mm is a useful indicator of
LV hypertrophy and, among patients with HC, it is more sensitive than other more 
commonly employed criteria.

PMID: 2529761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):405-7.

Interferon and interferon inhibitor levels in patients infected with
varicella-zoster virus, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex, or Kaposi's sarcoma, and in normal
individuals.

Ambrus JL(1), Poiesz BJ, Lillie MA, Stadler I, Di Berardino LA, Chadha KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, State University of New York, Buffalo.

PURPOSE: Previous studies had reported that normal individuals do not have
measurable levels of interferons in their circulation, whereas high levels have
been found in patients in the early stages of AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome) and in those with AIDS-related complex (ARC). This study was undertaken
to compare levels of interferon and interferon inhibitors in plasma samples from 
patients with AIDS, ARC, Kaposi's sarcoma, or varicella-zoster virus infection,
and from control subjects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 206 persons were tested for the presence of
interferon and interferon inhibitors in their plasma: 76 with ARC or AIDS, with
or without Kaposi's sarcoma or lymphoma; 32 with varicella-zoster infection; 12
with AIDS-unrelated Kaposi's sarcoma; and 86 normal control subjects at high or
low risk of AIDS with or without positive antibody levels to human
immunodeficiency virus-1. Total interferon activity was measured by bioassay and 
the subtypes were not separated.
RESULTS: Of 86 normal control subjects, 85 had no significant levels of
interferon or interferon inhibitor. One disease-free homosexual exhibited
measurable interferon levels. Patients acutely infected with varicella-zoster
virus showed no measurable interferon or inhibitor levels except if they were in 
a high-risk group for AIDS. Seventy-six patients with ARC or AIDS exhibited
measurable circulating interferon levels. Only patients with AIDS had interferon 
inhibitors in their circulation. Of 12 patients with Kaposi's sarcoma unrelated
to AIDS, none had measurable interferon inhibitor levels, but some exhibited
measurable interferon levels.
CONCLUSION: It is suggested that levels of interferon inhibitor should be
considered when interferon is used therapeutically in viral or neoplastic
diseases.

PMID: 2478016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Anaesthesist. 1989 Oct;38(10):539-43.

[Preoperative plasma exchange in treatment of plasma-related coagulation
disorders before liver transplantation].

[Article in German]

Hackl W(1), Zadrobilek E, Mauritz W, Längle F, Höcker P, Sporn P.

Author information: 
(1)Intensivebehandlungestation I, Klinik für Anaesthesie und Allgemeine
Intensivmedizin der Universität Wien.

PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-two consecutive patients undergoing orthotopic
liver transplantation at the Department of Surgery I, University of Vienna
Medical School (OLT nos. 1 to 72), were evaluated. Their mean age was 47 years
(range: 18-63 years). The indications for liver transplantation are listed in
Table 1. All transplant procedures were performed without using a bypass
technique. The intraoperative management and surgical procedure have been
described elsewhere [7]. Patients were categorized in two groups, each of which
was divided in two subgroups. Group I consisted of 18 patients transplanted
before the introduction of preoperative plasma exchange. These were
retrospectively allocated to two subgroups on basis of their preoperative
prothrombin times (PT): A (n = 9): preoperative PT less than 40%; B (n = 9):
preoperative PT greater than 40%. The two subgroups of group 2, which contained
54 patients, were compared on a prospective basis: C (n = 32): preoperative PT
above 40%; D (n = 22): PT on admission below 40%, preoperative plasma exchange.
Comparison of the two subgroups was based on the following parameters: (1)
pre-exchange PT (subgroup D); (2) preoperative PT (= PT post-plasma exchange in
subgroup D; (3) intraoperative infusion volumes (balanced electrolyte solutions
and human albumin to maintain an intravascular colloid osmotic pressure greater
than 16 mm Hg); (4) transfusion volumes (whole blood stored for no more than 72 h
or packed red cells and fresh plasma, as available; and (5) intraoperative sodium
bicarbonate requirements to maintain an arterial pH greater than 7.20.
RESULTS: (Table 2) . Prothrombin time (PT): Group 1: Patients in subgroup A had a
mean preoperative PT of 34% (range: 15%-40%). This was significantly lower than
in subgroup B (74%; 52%-100%; P less than 0.001). Group 2: The pre-exchange mean 
PT in subgroup D was 27% (12%-39%) vs. 68% in subgroup C (45%-104%), the
difference being highly significant (P less than 0.0001). In patients in subgroup
D a mean plasma volume of 3638 ml was exchanged by plasmapheresis. This resulted 
in a significant increase in PT to 55% (Table 3). As a result, the preoperative
post-exchange PT in subgroup D was slightly but significantly (P less than 0.005)
less than in subgroup C. Transfusion volumes: Group 1: Patients in subgroup A
needed significantly more blood units than those in subgroup B (55.3 units
[19-110] vs. 18.7 [3-33]).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2556059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):555-60.

Sexual transmission of human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I).

Murphy EL(1), Figueroa JP, Gibbs WN, Brathwaite A, Holding-Cobham M, Waters D,
Cranston B, Hanchard B, Blattner WA.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the seroprevalence of human T-lymphotropic virus type I
(HTLV-I) in a sexually active population and to determine sexual behavior risk
factors for infection.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional seroprevalence study using enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assay (ELISA) and Western blot. Risk-factor data were gathered by administered
questionnaire and chart review.
SETTING: Two urban, primary care clinics for persons with sexually transmitted
diseases run by the Jamaican Ministry of Health.
PATIENTS: Of the 2050 consecutive patients presenting with new episodes of
sexually transmitted disease, 1977 patients were eligible for analysis.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Overall HTLV-I seroprevalence was 5.7%; prevalence
increased with age from 1.6% (age, 14 to 19 years) to 5.1% (age, 30 years and
older) in men and from 5.3% (age, 14 to 19 years) to 14.1% (age, 30 years and
older) in women. Compared with a reference cohort of food service employees,
age-adjusted HTLV-I seroprevalence was increased in female patients with sexually
transmitted disease (odds ratio = 1.83; CI, 1.41 to 2.83) but not in male
patients with sexually transmitted disease. Independent risk factors for HTLV-I
infection in women included having had more than ten lifetime sexual partners
(odds ratio = 3.52, CI, 1.28 to 9.69) and a current diagnosis of syphilis (odds
ratio = 2.12; CI, 1.12 to 3.99). In men, a history of penile sores or ulcers
(odds ratio = 2.13; CI, 1.05 to 4.33) and a current diagnosis of syphilis (odds
ratio = 3.56; CI, 1.24 to 10.22) were independent risk factors for HTLV-I
infection. Of 1977 patients, 5 (0.3%) had antibodies to human immunodeficiency
virus type 1 (HIV-1), including 2 with HTLV-I and HIV-1 coinfection.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that HTLV-I is transmitted from infected men to women
during sexual intercourse. Our data are consistent with the lower efficiency of
female-to-male sexual transmission of HTLV-I, but penile ulcers or concurrent
syphilis may increase a man's risk of infection.

PMID: 2789009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):567-73.

Spinal and peripheral bone mineral densities in acromegaly: the effects of excess
growth hormone and hypogonadism.

Diamond T(1), Nery L, Posen S.

Author information: 
(1)Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To measure spinal and peripheral bone mineral densities in
patients with acromegaly.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Tertiary care center.
SUBJECTS: Twenty-four patients with acromegaly and 24 case controls. Seventeen
patients (12 eugonadal and 5 hypogonadal) had "active" disease as indicated by
elevated plasma concentrations of growth hormone or somatomedin C or both at the 
time of the study. Seven patients (all hypogonadal) had inactive disease by these
criteria.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bone mineral was measured by single photon
absorptiometry of the forearm and dual photon absorptiometry of the spine. The
forearm bone mineral content of patients with active disease, regardless of
gonadal status, was significantly higher than that of normal subjects (P less
than 0.001) or of patients with inactive disease (P less than 0.001). The disease
"activity" (17.2 +/- 3.7; CI, 9.5 to 24.9) and the sex of the patient (female,
-16.6 +/- 3.4; CI, -23.7 to -9.5) were the only independent predictors of forearm
measurements. Vertebral bone densities were lower in acromegalic patients than in
normal subjects (P less than 0.001). Vertebral values were correlated with the
gonadal status of the patients (hypogonadism, -0.126 +/- 0.056; CI, -0.244 to
-0.009) and with serum calcium concentrations (0.592 +/- 0.274; CI, 0.032 to
1.153) but not with acromegalic activity. In 13 patients, forearm bone was
measured before and after treatment (mean duration of follow-up, 3.4 years).
Patients with persistently elevated, plasma somatomedin C concentrations at the
end of the study period showed a mean annual increase of 1.5% in forearm
measurements during the period of observation, whereas patients with normal
concentrations showed a mean annual decrease of 1.0% (P less than 0.01 for the
difference between the groups). The percent change in forearm bone mineral
content per year (y) was highly correlated with residual somatomedin C activity
(x): y = 2.023x - 2.75; r = 0.665.
CONCLUSIONS: Forearm and vertebral bone mineral measurements change in opposite
directions in acromegaly. The high forearm values are attributable to the
growth-promoting action of growth hormone and somatomedin C, whereas low
vertebral values are associated with hypogonadism.

PMID: 2774387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):592-603.

Monoclonal antibodies for treating cancer.

Dillman RO.

Author information: 
Hoag Cancer Center, Newport Beach, California.

PURPOSE: To assess the current status of in-vivo use of monoclonal antibodies for
treating cancer.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Publications appearing between 1980 and 1988 were identified
by computer searches using MEDLINE and CANCERLIT, by reviewing the table of
contents of recently published journals, and by searching bibliographies of
identified books and articles.
STUDY SELECTION: More than 700 articles, including peer-reviewed articles and
book chapters, were identified and selected for analysis.
DATA EXTRACTION: The literature was reviewed and 235 articles were selected as
relevant and representative of the current issues and future applications for
in-vivo monoclonal antibodies for cancer therapy and of the toxicity and efficacy
which has been associated with clinical trials. RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESES:
Approaches include using antibody alone (interacting with complement or effector 
cells or binding directly with certain cell receptors) and immunoconjugates
(antibody coupled to radioisotopes, drugs, toxins, or other biologicals). Most
experience has been with murine antibodies. Trials of antibody alone and
radiolabeled antibodies have confirmed the feasibility of this approach and the
in-vivo trafficking of antibodies to tumor cells. However, tumor cell
heterogeneity, lack of cytotoxicity, and the development of human antimouse
antibodies have limited clinical efficacy. Although the immunoconjugates are very
promising, heterogeneity and the antimouse immune response have hampered this
approach as has the additional challenge of chemically or genetically coupling
antibody to cytotoxic agents.
CONCLUSIONS: As a therapeutic modality, monoclonal antibodies are still promising
but their general use will be delayed for several years. New approaches using
human antibodies and reducing the human antiglobulin response should facilitate
treatment.

PMID: 2672932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):561-6.

Dextran sulfate is poorly absorbed after oral administration.

Lorentsen KJ(1), Hendrix CW, Collins JM, Kornhauser DM, Petty BG, Klecker RW,
Flexner C, Eckel RH, Lietman PS.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether dextran sulfate (molecular weight, 7000 to 
8000 daltons; 17% to 20% sulfur), a synthetic heparin analogue with anti-human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity in vitro, is absorbed after oral
administration.
DESIGN: Open-label, single-center study in two parts. The first part was a
bioavailability study in which six subjects received a single 1800-mg oral dose
and a single 225- or 300-mg intravenous dose. The second part was a study of the 
dose-response relation between dextran sulfate and total plasma lipolytic
activity in which twelve subjects were given a single infusion of either 0.05,
0.5, 5, or 50 mg of dextran sulfate.
SUBJECTS: Eighteen healthy volunteers.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the bioavailability study, plasma and urine
dextran-sulfate concentrations were measured by a competitive binding assay after
each dose. In addition, two bioassays were used to assess plasma concentrations: 
plasma lipolytic activity and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). After
the oral dose, plasma concentrations were not measurable with the competitive
binding assay (lower limit of sensitivity, 1 microgram/mL); less than 0.5% of the
dose was recovered in the urine, the APTT did not increase, and the median
increase in the plasma lipolytic activity was only twofold (maximum increase,
11-fold). In contrast, after the intravenous dose of 225 mg, peak plasma
concentrations by competitive binding assay were 26 to 35 micrograms/mL (median, 
28 micrograms/mL); 25% to 29% (median, 25%) of the dose was recovered in the
urine; the APTT increased to 3.5 to 9.2 times the baseline value (median
increase, 6.9 times), and the plasma lipolytic activity increased by 185 to 548
times the baseline value (median increase, 438 times). In the dose-response
study, intravenous doses as low as 0.5 mg produced significant increases in the
plasma lipolytic activity. There was a steep dose-response curve between 0.5 and 
50 mg.
CONCLUSION: Dextran sulfate is very poorly absorbed after oral administration.

PMID: 2476054  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Oct;82(10):1679-83.

[Detection of coronary restenosis using myocardial tomoscintigraphy with thallium
201. A series of 85 cases].

[Article in French]

Lusson JR(1), Citron B, Peycelon P, Maublant J, Kohler P, Richard A, Ponsonnaille
J, Cassagnes J.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiologie, hôpital Saint-Jacques, Clermont-Ferrand.

After a successful coronary angioplasty (less than 50 p. 100 residual stenosis
and no complication), can restenosis be detected by a non-invasive method? We
tested the value of stress thallium 201 myocardial scintigraphy by comparing this
method with clinical angina and the conventional exercise-induced angina test.
The study was prospective and involved 85 patients (74 men, 11 women; mean age
54.7 years, range 33-78 years). Sixty patients were suffering from angina, 13 had
post-infarction angina and 12 had mild necrosis. Angioplasty had been performed
on a single vessel (LAD in 57 cases, right in 18 cases and CX in 10 cases). After
6.4 +/- 1.8 months, all patients were re-evaluated under treatment, undergoing
successively an exercise test, a stress and recovery myocardial scintigraphy and 
a coronary angiography. Restenosis was defined as a more than 50 p. 100 reduction
of diameter on two orthogonal planes and was observed in 22 cases (26 p. 100). 19
patients were suffering from angina, 12 had restenosis, 10 were asymptomatic but 
had restenosis. Eighteen exercise tests were pathological; 10 corresponded to
restenosis and 12 were normal in spite of restenosis. Myocardial scintigraphy was
regarded as positive when, outside a necrotic territory, a lack of uptake at
stress was reversible or became worse at redistribution. 27 tests were positive, 
18 corresponded to restenosis, 4 were normal in spite of restenosis. The
diagnostic values of the three methods were compared: (Table: see
text).CONCLUSIONS: (1) stress myocardial scintigraphy has the best sensitivity
and specificity; (2) if it is negative, restenosis is very unlikely; (3) coronary
angiography may be performed only in case of symptoms and/or of positive stress
scintigraphy.

PMID: 2512870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1989 Oct;31(4):401-10.

A close correlation between the inhibitory effects of insulin-like growth
factor-I and SMS 201-995 on growth hormone release by acromegalic pituitary
tumours in vitro and in vivo.

Lamberts SW(1), van Koetsveld P, Hofland L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

In the present study we compared the in-vitro effects of IGF-I and SMS 201-995 on
GH release by cultured tumour cells obtained from seven acromegalic patients with
the preoperative in-vivo GH dynamics, including the acute response to 50
micrograms SMS 201-995 subcutaneously. IGF-I and SMS 201-995 inhibited GH release
during a 24 h incubation in four and five of the seven tumour cell preparations, 
respectively. The inhibitory effect of SMS 201-995 was greater than that exerted 
by IGF-I (P less than 0.01). There was a close correlation between the in-vitro
inhibitory effects of IGF-I and SMS 201-995 (P less than 0.01). In addition, the 
acute inhibitory effect of 50 micrograms SMS 201-995 on circulating GH levels in 
vivo correlated with the inhibitory effects in vitro of both SMS 201-995 (P less 
than 0.01) and IGF-I (P less than 0.05). The inhibitory effects of IGF-I and SMS 
201-995 on GH release in vitro were shown to be additive in two of four tumours. 
There was no relation between the in-vitro effects of IGF-I and/or SMS 201-995
and several in-vivo parameters, including fluctuations in GH levels,
sleep-induced GH release, a paradoxical increase of GH in response to TRH, and
the circulating IGF-I and PRL levels.IN CONCLUSION: (1) there is a close
correlation between the sensitivity of GH release by cultured human adenoma cells
to IGF-I and SMS 201-995. (2) There is also a close correlation between the
in-vivo inhibitory effect on GH release of SMS 201-995 and the in-vitro
inhibitory effects of both SMS 201-995 and IGF-I. (3) A subgroup of acromegalic
patients harbour pituitary tumours in which the qualitative regulation of hormone
secretion is similar to that of normal GH secretion.

PMID: 2627746  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Int Angiol. 1989 Oct-Dec;8(4 Suppl):67-71.

A long term treatment with a venotropic drug. Results on efficacy and safety of
Daflon 500 mg in chronic venous insufficiency.

Guillot B(1), Guilhou JJ, de Champvallins M, Mallet C, Moccatti D, Pointel JP.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Saint Charles, Montpellier, France.

Drugs for long term administration have to prove their efficacy and safety.
Previously published double blind controlled studies (from single dose to two
months treatment) have already demonstrated the phlebotropic activity of Daflon
500 mg in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). The aim of the study was to
investigate the safety of this agent during one year of continuous
administration. Two-hundred and fifteen out-patients suffering from CVI received 
Daflon 500 mg, 2 tablets per day. Therapeutic activity was evaluated every 2
months on: 1) venous symptoms (functional discomfort, cramps, evening oedema)
assessed by a 0 to 4 scale; 2) supramalleolar and calf circumferences; 3) overall
assessment of efficacy (excellent, useful, nil). Acceptability was assessed by
recording the side effects and measuring laboratory parameters.RESULTS: 170
patients completed the study. Functional symptoms were statistically
significantly improved as shown by the following: functional discomfort: 0.55 +/-
0.06 vs 2.63 +/- 0.06, supra-malleolar circumference in cm: 22.5 +/- 0.2 vs 23.1 
+/- 0.2, and calf circumference in cm: 34.7 +/- 0.3 vs 35.2 +/- 0.3. This
improvement in the symptoms quickly appeared from the first control (M2) and
reached about 50% of the total decrease. Overall assessment of efficacy was
evaluated as follows: excellent = 58%, useful = 33%, nil = 9% of the cases.
Laboratory parameters remained constant during the 12 months. Side effects were
essentially gastralgia (n = 7). According to these results, it appears the
efficacy and safety of Daflon 500 mg are corroborated even after a one year
administration.

PMID: 2632651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Int J Sports Med. 1989 Oct;10(5):311-6.

Protein and energy metabolism during prolonged exercise in trained athletes.

Stein TP(1), Hoyt RW, Toole MO, Leskiw MJ, Schluter MD, Wolfe RR, Hiller WD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Univ. of Medicine & Dentistry, New Jersey-School of Osteopathic
Medicine, Camden.

Eight elite triathlon athletes participated in a laboratory study of the effects 
of endurance exercise on protein and energy metabolism. The study consisted of 3 
h of cycling and 5 h of treadmill running; 3.5 h before beginning the exercise, a
primed constant infusion of 1-13C leucine and 6,6(-2)H glucose was begun. Serial 
blood samples were collected during the rest and exercise periods for isotopic
analysis. Respiratory gas exchange was determined every half hour.RESULTS: the
subjects exercised at an average of 53% +/- 3% of peak VO2. During the 8-h
exercise period there was a decline in glucose utilization and an increase in
lipid oxidation. For the first part of the exercise, most of the glucose oxidized
was of muscle origin. Hepatic glucose production increased with exercise from 20 
g/h to a maximum of about 60 g/h after 4 h of exercise and then decreased toward 
the pre-exercise rate. The plasma urea concentration was unchanged during the
study. The leucine flux decreased during the first 4 h of exercise and then
attained a new plateau about 20% lower than the pre-exercise value indicating an 
adaptive reduction in protein turnover.

PMID: 2689365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1989 Oct;14(4):895-900.

Silent ischemia: evaluation by exercise and redistribution tomographic
thallium-201 myocardial imaging.

Hecht HS(1), Shaw RE, Bruce T, Myler RK.

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco Heart Institute, Seton Medical Center, Daly City, California 94015.

To compare the amount of myocardium jeopardized during silent ischemia and
painful ischemia, 112 consecutive patients undergoing coronary arteriography with
ischemia demonstrated by exercise and redistribution tomographic thallium-201
myocardial imaging (SPECT) were divided into two groups: 84 patients without
anginal pain (silent ischemia) and 28 with pain (painful ischemia). The SPECT
apical, mid and basal ventricular levels of the short-axis view and the apical
portion of the long-axis view were divided into 20 segments. The results were 1) 
7.4 +/- 4.7 ischemic segments in silent ischemia and 7.6 +/- 3.7 in painful
ischemia (p = NS) with 4.7 +/- 3.6 segments in silent ischemia undergoing total
redistribution compared with 5.4 +/- 3.4 in painful ischemia (p = NS); 2) no
difference in the incidence of single, double or triple vessel disease between
silent and painful ischemic groups; 3) similar anatomic distribution of ischemic 
segments between the two groups; 4) more positive exercise electrocardiographic
(ECG) changes in painful ischemia (70%) than in silent ischemia (32%) (p less
than 0.001) with equal amounts of ischemia associated with positive and negative 
exercise ECG findings.CONCLUSIONS: 1) Patients with silent and painful ischemia
during exercise have similar amounts of ischemic myocardium demonstrated by
tomographic thallium-201 imaging and similar extent of angiographically
documented coronary artery disease despite the absence of pain and the lower
incidence of positive exercise ECG findings in silent ischemia. 2) Positive and
negative exercise ECG findings were associated with similar amounts of ischemic
myocardium.

PMID: 2794274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Neuroendocrinol. 1989 Oct 1;1(5):351-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.1989.tb00128.x.

Molecular Cloning and Characterization of c-erb-A mRNA Species in Mouse
Neuroblastoma Cells.

Moeller M(1), Rapoport B, Gavin LA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology-Metabolism, Veterans' Administration Medical Center and
the Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, California, 
USA.

Abstract The mouse neuroblastoma cell line is an excellent model in which to
study thyroid hormone action and metabolism, particularly in neural tissue. We
therefore undertook the molecular cloning and characterization in these cells of 
putative thyroid hormone receptors related to c-erb-A. Since rat brain tissue
contains multiple cell types, and because of possible subtle differences between 
species (mouse and rat), we therefore screened a new cDNA library constructed
from mouse neuroblastoma cell mRNA with synthetic oligonucleotide probes based on
the published nucleotide sequence of the c-erb-A gene in whole rat brain. Despite
the fact that this rat brain cDNA sequence is now recognized to represent a
c-erb-A alpha 1 form, the cDNA clones that we isolated were all members of the
newly-recognized c-erb-A alpha 2 form. This identification was made on the basis 
of nucleotide sequence divergence downstream of the nucleotide corresponding to
amino-acid residue 370 in the predicted coding region. The two longest mouse
neuroblastoma cDNA clones, clone 29 (1796 bp) and clone 32 (1410 bp), were 93% to
94% homologous with the c-erb-A alpha 2 and c-erb-A alpha 1 forms in their DNA
binding and thyroid hormone binding domains (up to amino-acid residue 370 in the 
latter). Both clones 29 and 32 were incomplete in that they terminated at their
3'ends at an internal Eco R1 site. Fortunately this 120 bp (40 derived
amino-acid) truncation was downstream of the reported thyroid hormone binding
domain. The 5'untranslated end of clone 29 (446 bp) was of interest because a
region of its nucleotide sequence (279 bp) revealed a high degree of homology
(87%) with rat brain c-erb-A alpha 1. This highly conserved region in clone 29
appeared to be important in the regulation of translation because only clone 32, 
in which this region was truncated, efficiently translated protein in a cell-free
system. The protein product of clone 32 did not bind thyroid hormone. Northern
blot analysis of mouse neuroblastoma mRNA with site-specific synthetic
oligonucleotides revealed that the c-erb-A alpha 2 species was dominant (major
band of 2.4 kb), with a lesser amount of the c-erb-A alpha1 species (major band
of 1.8 kb).IN CONCLUSION: 1) We report the molecular cloning of c-erb-A variants 
in a specific neural tissue cell type, namely mouse neuroblastoma cells; 2) The
cells contained predominantly the c-erb-A alpha 2 subtype; 3) This c-erb-A alpha 
2 form was unique up to bp 167 at its 5'untranslated end, and was then followed, 
up to the ATG initiation codon, by a highly conserved region common to all
c-erb-A a species; 4) The 5'untranslated region appeared to play a role in the
translational efficiency of this mRNA; 5) The protein product of the c-erb-A
alpha 2 mRNA in these cells did not appear to bind thyroid hormone. In view of
this finding, the physiological role of the c-erb-A alpha 2 protein remained
speculative and may involve a represser function at the thyroid hormone
responsive element.

PMID: 19210427  [PubMed]


297. Onkologie. 1989 Oct;12(5):225-9.

Vindesine-epirubicin versus vindesine-mitoxantrone in metastatic breast cancer.

Hausmaninger H(1), Lehnert M, Steger G, Sevelda P, Michlmayr G, Hehenwarter W,
Fridrik M, Samonigg H, Schiller L, Manfreda D, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Landeskrankenanstalten Salzburg, Austria.

The present study was designed to assess the toxicity and efficacy of two
chemotherapy protocols in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Starting in
December 1985, 230 patients were randomized to receive vindesine (V) (3 mg/m2
i.v.) and mitoxantrone (M) (10 mg/m2 i.v.) or V and epirubicin (E) (40 mg/m2
i.v.) every 3 weeks x 3 and every 4 weeks thereafter. Patients were stratified
according to site of disease (visceral, bone or soft tissue dominant) and prior
therapy. Patient groups were comparable with respect to menopausal status, age,
estrogen receptor status and disease-free interval. About two-thirds of the
patients presented with visceral recurrence and 30% with bone lesions: only 8%
had soft tissue metastases.RESULTS: We observed a significant difference (p =
0.003) in the frequency of alopecia (WHO grade 3-4, 36% vs. 60% favoring regimen 
VM); gastrointestinal and hematologic side effects and neurotoxicity were mild
and similar for both groups. In 182 evaluable patients there was a 26% response
rate (CR + PR. UICC criteria) for VM and 35% for VE (not significant). NC was
observed in 37% and 43% of patients treated with VM or VE respectively. There was
no significant difference between these two groups with regard to time to
progression and survival. The median time of follow-up was 8 months and therefore
too short to draw definite conclusions. Both regimens were well tolerated and
seem to be equally effective, although the response rate for VM and VE was lower 
than expected.

PMID: 2685688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Paraplegia. 1989 Oct;27(5):354-8.

Clinical, urodynamic and neurophysiological findings in patients with neuropathic
bladder due to a lumbar intervertebral disc protrusion.

Fanciullacci F(1), Sandri S, Politi P, Zanollo A.

Author information: 
(1)Section for Myelolesions, Urological Department, Hospital of Magenta, Milano,
Italy.

Sacral nerve roots are affected in 1 to 15% of reported cases of lumbar disc
protrusions (mainly posterior) (Scott, 1965). Urinary retention is the commonest 
symptom. In the last 6 years, we have observed 22 patients (18 males and 4
females) with a neuropathic bladder due to this condition in the acute phase.
They underwent intermittent catheterisation (IC), and manoeuvres such as Credé
and Valsalva's at fixed times. Almost all obtained a balanced bladder.
(FOLLOW-UP: 24 months.) The most common urodynamic finding at the onset was
bladder areflexia with severe denervation of the perineal floor. At follow-up,
65% still had bladder areflexia and 29% normoreflexia, all with normal
compliance. Perineal floor innervation showed a fair recovery, mainly in the
efferent part. An hypothesis is presented to explain why this kind of neuropathic
bladder has a normal compliance.

PMID: 2601984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1989 Oct;42(8):519-29.

[Silent myocardial ischemia during Holter monitoring in patients with diabetes
mellitus].

[Article in Spanish]

Marín Huerta E, Rayo I, Lara JI, Cuéllar L, de la Calle H, Romero J, del Río A,
Muela A, Aza V.

To evaluate the prevalence and characteristics of silent myocardial ischemia in
asymptomatic patients with non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, 50 diabetic
patients (24 males, 26 females; mean age +/- SD = 58.3 +/- 6.4 years) with a
normal resting electrocardiogram were prospectively studied. The total group
underwent 48 hours electrocardiographic Holter monitoring, medical history,
physical examination an a test for cardiac autonomic neuropathy. Serum levels of 
total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides and Hb A1c
were determined. An ischemic episode was defined as asymptomatic ST-segment
depression greater than or equal to 1 mm, greater than or equal to 1 min.
Day-to-day variability was studied. Six hundred and forty one episodes with a
total duration of 1,014 minutes of ischemia were recorded in 29 patients (58%).
The mean number of episodes in 48 hours per patients was 19.2 +/- 21.9 and the
mean time of ischemia over this period was 149 +/- 374 minutes. The average heart
rate at the onset of the episodes was 95.2 +/- 8.4 beats per minute. Two hundred 
and ninety two (45.6%) episodes occurred without heart rate changes and in 349
(54.4%) episodes an increase in heart rate was detected at the onset of the
episode. An important day-to-day variability in the number of episodes (73.8 +/- 
29.5%) and ischemia duration (76.9 +/- 88.8%) was found. Fifteen patients had no 
ischemic episodes in either the first or second monitoring day. Silent ischemia
was related to higher levels of total cholesterol (p less than 0.05),
LDL-cholesterol (p less than 0.05) and Hb A1c (p less than 0.01) and was
associated to diabetes complications: retinopathy (p less than 0.001), peripheral
vascular disease (p less than 0.01), polyneuropathy (p less than 0.05),
nephropathy (p less than 0.05), and impotence (p less than 0.01). Silent ischemia
was not associated to abnormal test for cardiac autonomic neuropathy.CONCLUSIONS:
prevalence of silent myocardial ischemia during daily activities in asymptomatic 
diabetic patients is very high (58%). Both an increase in oxygen demand and a
decrease in oxygen supply may be involved in its pathophysiology. In diabetic
patients silent ischemia is related to the presence of other risk factors for
coronary artery disease and to diabetes complications and shows a marked
day-to-day variability.

PMID: 2602608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1989 Oct;42(8):501-12.

[The Fuenlabrada study: a familial aggregation of ischemic cardiopathy and
cardiovascular risk factors].

[Article in Spanish]

Plaza I, Otero J, Muñoz MT, Madero R, Baeza J, Ceñal MJ, Ruiz-Jarabo C, Parra MI,
Asensio J, Puga M, et al.

Familial aggregation of coronary heart disease (CHD) and coronary risk factors
(CRF) were evaluated by clinical history in adult relatives of children surveyed 
for CRF. Population was divided into two groups: Group I included 2,153 children 
without parental history of CHD. Group II included 266 children of 112 families
with parental history of early CHD (before 56 years). In 105 cases the patients
were the fathers and in 7 cases the mothers. All the patients were admitted to a 
coronary care unit. Familial aggregation of CHD was 9.7 times more frequent in
paternal families of group II (p less than or equal to 0.0001) than in group I;
there was no differences in maternal families. Higher prevalence of
hyperlipidaemia, blood pressure hypertension, smoking habits, diabetes and
obesity in fathers of group II was observed. Children in group II showed
increased levels of C-LDL and decreased levels of C-HDL compared with those of
group I. The prevalence of CRF was also significantly higher in children of group
II, although in the 33% of the children of group II no CRF was
detected.CONCLUSION: a substantial proportion, but not all cases, of familial
aggregation of CHD could be explained by known CRF.

PMID: 2602606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Rev Invest Clin. 1989 Oct-Dec;41(4):381-5.

[Patient data for evaluating reference values].

[Article in Spanish]

Loría A, Salas R.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the use of data in patients as a way to evaluate the values
of reference in clinical assays. Serum calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) were
selected for this purpose.
MATERIAL: A total of 836 consecutive admissions in a 10 week period were revised.
Seventy percent (580 cases) had data of Ca and P in the first week following
admission. A total of 424 were excluded by anyone of the following criteria: a)
serum urea greater than 50 mg/dL, b) serum creatinine greater than 1.5 mg/dL; c) 
serum albumin less than 4 g/dL; d) lack of data of either urea, creatinine or
albumin. These cutoff values were selected on the basis of a significant
difference (t test) in the mean of Ca and/or P in patients grouped according to
levels of the available data. The remainder of 156 cases is the selected
population of study, and the 580 with Ca and P is the total population.
METHODS: Ca and P were assayed in an analyzer (Coulter Chemistry) using the DAM
and the Jaffé methods respectively. The precision during the period of study was 
adequate (CVs of 2.6% for Ca and 2.9% for P).
RESULTS: Table 1 compares the mean, SD and CV of Ca and P in the selected versus 
the total population. There are significant reductions (F test) in the
variability of Ca and P in the selected population (from a CV 9 to 5% in Ca and
from 35 to 13% in P). Table 2 compares the age and sex distributions of the
selected versus the total population. There are no significant differences (chi
square test) although there is a lower proportion of people above 80 years of age
in the selected population. The reference intervals of Ca and P in the selected
population were obtained with the mean +/- 2 SD as both showed Gaussian
distributions. These limits are compared in table 3 versus the values of the
institution and of the manufacturer of the analyzer used. The P limits of this
study fall intermediate to the other two, but in Ca they are the lowest of the
three. Shortly after the completion of this study, the institutional values of Ca
were changed to 8.5-10.5 mg/dL on the basis of the one year results in a WHO
quality assessment scheme. The modification made the Ca limits of this study also
intermediate to the other two series. The small differences in the limits have
clinical and economic repercussions. Table 4 shows there is a 20% reduction in
the number of abnormal tests (206 vs 259) and in the number of abnormal
individuals (165 vs 203) using the limits of this study versus the institutional 
limits before modification.
CONCLUSIONS: The data of Ca and P in a selected but representative population of 
patients proved to be a reliable way of evaluating its reference intervals. The
reference intervals of this study were intermediate to those of the manufacturers
of the analyzer and the laboratory (after modification). This finding suggests
the strategy may be as good as more conventional approaches to establish
reference values.

PMID: 2631172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Oct;8(10):683-90.

[Intraventricular thrombi in acute myocardial infarct. Clinicoanatomic study
carried out in 193 consecutive cases].

[Article in Portuguese]

Perdigão C, Andrade A, Ribeiro C.

AIMS: To determine the incidence of intraventricular thrombi in patients who died
of acute myocardial infarction, as well as to define the clinico-anatomical
parameters of the population with thrombi. CONCEPT OF THE STUDY: To apply a
clinical as well as an anatomical protocol of prospective study, in patients who 
died of acute myocardial infarction. The clinical protocol contemplates 64
parameters and the anatomical protocol contemplates 34. in the anatomical study
were used very discriminative technics, already presented in previous papers.
PLACE OF THE STUDY: The study took place in a CCU and pathological department of 
an University Hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 193 patients who died successively of acute myocardial
infarction in a CCU between 1983 and 1986. The only criteria for the inclusion in
the study was the possibility of doing a necropsy study, which was done in 77% of
the patients who died in that period. The study was a prospective one, being
excluded only the patients in whom the anatomical study didnt confirm recent
myocardial infarction. The clinical data were observed during the stay in the CCU
using a protocol developed for this study. In the anatomical study a protocol
developed by the authors was applied, using very discriminative anatomical
quantification technics of the infarct size as well as of the coronary
obstruction degree by atherosclerotic plaques. All data were stored and treated
in a computer program developed for this study.
RESULTS: From the 193 cases that have been studied, 88 (43%) presented thrombus
in at least one of the ventricular cavities, 38 (26%) only in left ventricle, 15 
(8%) only in right ventricle and 35 (18%) in both ventricles. The set with
thrombus has presented a few characteristics which granted it some individuality.
Thus, this group presented: a higher delay between the beginning of acute
myocardial infarction and the admission in the CCU (and so in the beginning of
the anticoagulant therapy), lower prevalence of diabetes, higher prevalence of
left ventricular failure (Killip class III or IV), higher prevalence of
cardiogenic shock and so a higher need of inotropic therapy, higher heart weight,
higher prevalence of auricular thrombi and bigger infarct size when evaluated by 
a QRS score. In the group with left ventricular thrombi, the anterior infarct was
more frequent and in the group with right ventricular thrombi the right
ventricular infarct was also more frequent. The systemic embolism was uncommon in
this group (1 case in 193 patients).
CONCLUSIONS: 1. The intraventricular thrombi occurs in about half of the patients
who died of acute myocardial infarction. 2. The group with thrombi has presented 
some characteristics which makes it different from the group with no thrombi. 3. 
The delay in the beginning of the anticoagulant therapy seems to be a risk factor
of intraventricular thrombosis.

PMID: 2698688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Oct;8(10):705-8.

[Clinical methods for evaluating infarct size and its anatomic correlations.
Study carried out in 193 cases. III. Comparison of data on the evaluation of the 
infarct size using the QRS score and a method of maximal creatine kinase
determination in the serum].

[Article in Portuguese]

Perdigão C, Martins C, Andrade A, Bastos C, Monteiro J, Ribeiro C.

AIMS: To compare two methods concerning the clinical evaluation of infarct
size--one using a QRS score, the other based on peak Ck values--applied to the
same population. CONCEPT AND PLACE OF THE STUDY: to determine--based on
previously established correlations between a QRS score and the anatomic total
infarct size on one hand, and between the peak CK values and the anatomic recent 
infarct size on the other hand--which myocardial infarction subgroup constitutes 
the best indication for each method. The study took place in a Coronary Care Unit
of a Central Hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 193 patients who died successively of acute myocardial
infarction through out 4 years were studied. After establishing the exclusion
critéria, the QRS score was calculated according to the method of Selvester
modified by Wagner, and peak CK values were evaluated. Infarct size, either
recent or old, was determined by means of an anatomical method developed by the
authors and based on Hackel's and Alonso's previous works. Correlations were
established between data from each clinical method and those from the anatomical 
method. Several myocardial infarction subgroups were considered for comparison of
the correlations found in each subset.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: As long as QRS score was regarded, significant
correlations were found between the evaluation by QRS score and anatomical
infarct size in the subgroups of patients with severe pump failure, prior
myocardial infarction, or total loss of ventricular muscle mass of at least 20
percent; however, a significant correlation was missing when the whole myocardial
infarction group was taken into consideration. When peak CK value were
considered, a weak significant correlation was found between the evaluation by
enzyme determination and anatomical infarct size in the whole group of patients, 
but a stronger correlation was present in the subgroups of patients with survival
longer than 24 hours, anterior wall myocardial infarction, free wall cardiac
rupture, or first acute myocardial infarction. In conclusion the choice of the
method to be used in the clinical evaluation of infarct size should take into
account the type of population beeing studied, and follow the results obtained in
different myocardial infarction subgroups as mentioned above.

PMID: 2631818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Oct;8(10):691-8.

[Automatic processing of clinical information related to 2334 myocardial infarcts
consecutively hospitalized at a coronary care unit].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santos AL, Azevedo J, Melo M, Covas M, da Silva CA, Ribeiro C.

OBJECTIVE: Brief description of a clinical information system and its application
to 2334 cases of acute myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: To evaluate the influence on intra-hospital prognosis of 22 clinical
characteristics observed in patients on the acute phase of myocardial infarction 
admitted to a coronary care unit.
SETTING: Coronary care unit.
PATIENTS: 2334 cases of myocardial infarction admitted sequentially to a coronary
care unit.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A locally developed computerized information system was
used. Software was organized in a modular way in order to turn available
simplicity, flexibility and expandibility which are requisites of an automatic
information system operating in a coronary unit. Following characteristics were
evaluated: age and sex; previous myocardial infarction, angina, hypertension,
diabetes, tabagism and hyperlipidemia; electrocardiographic localization of the
infarction; ventricular dysfunction as evaluated by Killip classes;
supraventricular and ventricular dysrhythmias; auriculo ventricular and
intraventricular blocks; epistenocardic pericarditis; intra-hospital extension of
the infarction; transient episode of hypertension and post-infarction angina.
Statistical association between these characteristics and intra-hospital
mortality was evaluated. Statistical significance was considered with a p less
than 0.05.
RESULTS: Statistical significant differences were found between surviving and
non-surviving patients in the following characteristics: age and sex; previous
history of myocardial infarction, angina and diabetes; Killip classes
distribution; electrocardiographic localization of the infarction; intra-hospital
extension of the infarction; auriculoventricular block, left and right bundle
branch block; supraventricular and ventricular dysrhythmias. Patients with a
previous history of tabagism and hyperlipidemia had a lesser mortality and were
younger than the patients without these characteristics. Patients with transient 
episodes of hypertension and epistenocardic pericarditis had a lesser hospital
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Local development of a computerized information system turned
available clinical information of 2334 patients sequentially admitted to a
coronary care unit. A worse intra-hospital prognosis was present in the following
groups of patients: older patients and females; patients with a previous history 
of infarction, angina and diabetes; anterior myocardial infarction, left
ventricular dysfunction as evaluated by Killip classes, ventricular and
supraventricular dysrhythmias, auriculoventricular and intraventricular blocks,
transient episodes of hypertension and extension of the infarction. Patients with
a previous history of tabagism and hyperlipidemia had a lesser mortality;
however, there patients were younger than other. Patients with transient episodes
of hypertension on first hours of infarction and those who had epistenocardic
pericarditis had a lesser mortality.

PMID: 2631817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Oct;8(10):699-702.

[Coronary transluminal angioplasty and determination of the intracoronary
gradient with a new monorail system].

[Article in Spanish]

Freitas AD, Medina A, Bethencourt A, Coello I, Hernández E, Peraza C, Melian F,
Jiménez F, Laraudogoitia E, Goicolea J, et al.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results obtained in coronary angioplasty using
the new very low profile monorail catheter.
DESIGN: A retrospective study to define the causes and frequency of successful
and unsuccessful coronary angioplasty on proximal and distal lesions located in
the three coronary vessels.
SETTING: Patients referred to the Hemodynamic Unit for coronary angioplasty.
PATIENTS: Coronary angioplasty was performed in 106 patients with cardiac
ischemic disease (stable angina, unstable angina and myocardial infarction after 
thrombolytic therapy).
INTERVENTIONS: To perform coronary angioplasty using a monorail system, including
dilatation of vessels (angioplasty) and to measure the intracoronary gradient.
RESULTS: A high success rate was achieved (92%) independent of vessel dilated or 
of the position of the stenosis. There was a lower success rate in complex
lesions.
CONCLUSION: In this study, this newly modified system for coronary angioplasty
with balloon catheter and monorail pressure catheter gave a very high
performance.

PMID: 2534355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Shigaku. 1989 Oct;77(3):1067-74.

[A method on the filling of primary caries].

[Article in Japanese]

Masaya M, Uchikawa Y, Uchikura Y, Tosaka S, Takahashi K, Okumura T.

With advancement of materials and techniques for tooth restoration and changes in
public awareness, procedures for treating primary caries have gradually minimized
scraping of the tooth. In other words, there is a tendency toward qualitative
transformation in caries prevention, moving from tertiary to secondary
prevention, and further to primary prevention. The present paper describes a
filling method for primary caries using an enamel cavity technique and
Light-activated composite resin.MATERIALS AND METHODS: 1) Cleaning of the tooth
surface with a polishing brush; 2) water rinsing and drying; 3) topical
application of a caries detector; 4) moisture exclusion with a rubber dam,
followed by scraping of the tooth with a carbide bur (#330; ISO, 008); 5) after
scraping, removal of the carious lesion with a round bur (#1/2; ISO, 006); 6)
formation of an enamel cavity in the adjacent pit and fissuer; 7) making of a
bevel with a round diamond bur of 1.2mm in diameter; 8) etching; 9) water rinsing
and drying; 10) application of bonding agent; 11) filling with Full-fil Compule
and stepwise packing of the cavity, starting from a corner, with attention given 
to preventing bubbles; 12) make-up of the occlusal surface; 13) Polymerization
with a polymerizing unit (Light activated); 14) occlusal equilibration; 15)
margin correction with a trimming bur; 16) polishing.

PMID: 2489332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Oct;89(10):1639-47.

[Clinical evaluation of 20K gold alloy inlay restorations on young permanent
teeth from the viewpoint of tooth-emergence age].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanakamaru H, Machida Y, Sisikura K.

We observed 173 cases of 20K gold alloy inlay restorations on young permanent
premolars and molars and investigated the emergence age of all these teeth. The
observation period of inlay restorations was from 1 year to 11 years and 6
months. Clinical evaluations were made by exploring with an explorer,
roentgenography and color photography.RESULTS: 1. Changes in inlay restorations
occurred in 1 case (0.6%) of discoloration and 4 cases (2.3%) of inlay
dislodgement. 2. Changes in teeth occurred in 8 cases (4.6%) of secondary caries,
15 cases (8.7%) of new caries and 4 cases (2.3%) of pulpitis. 3. Clinical
failures occurred in 32 cases, and 24 of those cases were restored within 2 years
after tooth emergence. 4. Almost clinical failures occurred on the maxillary and 
mandibular first molars. 5. In 27 cases (15.6%), repeat restoration was
necessary. In 10 of these cases, the original 20K gold alloy inlay restorations
continued in use.

PMID: 2488975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Shikwa Gakuho. 1989 Oct;89(10):1529-48.

[Study of behavioral pharmacology on rats. Tranquilizing effects induced by
endogenous or exogenous bradykinin].

[Article in Japanese]

Yazaki K.

This study was investigated on the mechanism of the sedative state,
tranquilization induced by bradykinin (BK) and kallikrein (KAL). The drugs used
in this study were as follows: KAL as endogenous BK promoter; prostaglandins
(PGs) as a material of analogous action of BK; indomethacin and mepacrine as the 
inhibitors of PG-synthesis; eugenol as the OH- scavenger and the PGE-synthesis
potentiator; angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor as BK potentiator B. All
drugs were dissolved in Hartmann's solution (lactate Ringer's solution) and 10
microliters of solution was injected into the lateral ventricle of rats,
according to the Myers' procedure. Then, the rat behavior was estimated, by means
of monitoring spontaneous movement. A high performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC) was used for detecting alteration of monoamines and prostaglandins in the 
rat brain on sedative state after BK or KAL injection.RESULTS: 1) A 2-phase
alteration of spontaneous movement was occurred within 30 min after BK or KAL
icv-injection with behavioral specificity as follows: two exciting states and one
sedative state. 2) A great increase of spontaneous movement evoked by BK or KAL
was accompanied by exciting state as follows: jumping, wet dog response, struggle
and scratching response, rearing and exploration. 3) A great decrease of
spontaneous movement evoked by BK or KAL was accompanied with sedative state as
follows: crouching with piloerection and closed eyes, catalepsy, preening and
moisturizing and grooming. 4) PGE1 icv-injection was also carried out to clarify 
the involvement in the BK- or KAL-induced behavioral alteration. Consequently
caused PGE1 the similar result to BK or KAL. 5) ACEI elongated and enhanced the
exciting state or sedative state evoked by BK or KAL. 6) It was clear that BK
reduced levels of monoamines in the rat hypothalamus: levels of
norepinephrine(NE), epinephrine(E), dopamine(DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)
were decreased to 72.5%, 53.5%, 71.2% and 75.0% of control, respectively.
Reduction of catecholamines in the hypothalamus was produced by increase of PGs
and subsequently occurred sedative state of rats. 7) BK- or KAL-induced exciting 
state was enhanced by PG- synthesis inhibitor, especially the cyclo-oxygenase
inhibitor indomethacin, but the sedative state was weakened. On the contrary,
eugenol, an OH- scavenger, elongated and intensified the sedative state.
Detection with HPLC showed remarkable increase of levels of PGs in the rat brain 
during the sedative state: the level of PGE2 was 27.5% increase of control and
the level of PGE2 alpha was also 54.8% increase of control, respectively.

PMID: 2488972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Vrach Delo. 1989 Oct;(10):71-3.

[The pathomorphologic characteristics of the arrhythmogenic heart].

[Article in Russian]

Rozenberg VD.

A complex pathomorphological study was carried out of 80 hearts from patients who
died of cardiosclerosis with marked heart rhythm disorders and 20 control cases
with the purpose of assessment of the criteria of diagnosis of the arrhythmogenic
heart.METHODS USED: postmortal coronarography and cardioventriculography,
microdissection, WHO standard anatomical method, morphometric histological,
histochemical and histotopographic methods. The author established
pathomorphological criteria of diagnosis of the arrhythmogenic heart including a 
separate construction with prevailing changes of the right ventricle, fibro- and 
lipomatosis of the myocardium, extensive coronary obstruction forming ischemia
foci in the conduction system zones which are the site of formation of
arrhythmogenic substances.

PMID: 2694613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Vrach Delo. 1989 Oct;(10):46-8.

[Radiation thermometry and contact thermometry in patients with pyelonephritis].

[Article in Russian]

Kalugin VA.

A study is presented of 79 patients with acute and chronic pyelonephritis
examined by means of dynamic calorimetry and contact thermometry. Thermal
asymmetry of the lumbar region were revealed in 22 patients by means of contact
thermometry. Dynamic calorimetry revealed changes of the transitional process in 
75 patients as compared with the control.CONCLUSION: the method has a diagnostic 
value.

PMID: 2617982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 1989 Oct;11(5):344-8.

[Luteal function in patients with endometriosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Ji H.

Luteal function was studied in 19 cases with endometriosis, infertility being
present in 16 cases. Based on previous menstrual cycles, BBT graphs and cervical 
mucus scores, serum LH concentrations were measured consecutively for 3 days
during peri-ovulatory period to define day of LH peak (D0). Meanwhile, serum
estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P) levels were determined in early, mid and late
luteal phase. Endometrium biopsies were done on 4th and 12th days after BBT rise 
in 16 cases and dated according to Noyes' criteria. Six normally cycling women
with matched age were served as controls.RESULTS: Serum LH peaks were detected in
all patients and normal subjects. All data were synchronized by D0, and analyzed.
In endometriosis group, mean serum P levels in early, mid-luteal phase and total 
luteal phase (the sum of 3 values) were significantly lower than those in control
group. Five cases (26.3%) showed low P levels during mid-luteal and/or total
luteal phase. Delayed endometrial maturation was observed in 10 of 16 cases
(62.5%). Short luteal phase and/or delayed elevation of BBT were shown in 3 of 14
cases (21.4%). Besides, 10 of 12 cases (83.3%) had at least one abnormality in
all 3 parameters and 7 cases (58.3%) had two abnormalities. In conclusion, the
incidence of luteal phase defect (LPD) is higher in endometriosis group than that
in the controls. The mechanisms of LPD and its relationship with infertility were
discussed.

PMID: 2534614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. BMJ. 1989 Sep 30;299(6703):838-40.

Preventing iron deficiency in preschool children by implementing an educational
and screening programme in an inner city practice.

James J(1), Lawson P, Male P, Oakhill A.

Author information: 
(1)Montpelier Health Centre, Bristol.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the feasibility and acceptability of screening young
children for iron deficiency in a deprived inner city practice and to assess the 
effects of a programme of dietary education.
DESIGN: Prospective study of children in general practice, comparison with
historical controls.
SETTING: A deprived inner city practice.
PATIENTS: 127 Children aged 13-24 months. Findings were compared with those in
110 children of the same age studied previously.
INTERVENTIONS: All mothers received dietary education antenatally and in the
first year after giving birth. Screening for iron deficiency (defined as mean
cell volume less than 75 fl and haemoglobin concentration less than 105 g/l) and 
haemoglobinopathy (when appropriate) was offered for all children attending for
immunisation against measles, mumps, and rubella over 12 months; capillary blood 
samples were taken after immunisation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Uptake of the screening programme expressed as the
percentage of all children eligible for immunisation who were screened, and the
effectiveness of the dietary education as shown by the prevalence of iron
deficiency in the two groups.
RESULTS: Altogether, 122 of the 127 (96%) children who attended for immunisation 
had their haemoglobin concentration and mean cell volume measured; 90% of all
children aged 13-24 months in the practice were screened. Dietary education,
clinical procedures, and counselling were incorporated successfully into the
clinic's work. Ten children (8%) were iron deficient, all of whom responded to
iron supplements, and eight had a haemoglobinopathy trait. In the previous study 
110 children (70%) had been screened and 28 children (25%) had been iron
deficient. The two groups were similar in terms of sex, social class, and ethnic 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening young children for iron deficiency, sickle cell disease,
and thalassaemia when they attended for immunisation was acceptable and
successful in a socially deprived inner city practice. Dietary education may have
accounted for some of the reduction in the prevalence of iron deficiency that
occurred over the two years.

PMCID: PMC1837665
PMID: 2510850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. BMJ. 1989 Sep 30;299(6703):830-3.

Failure of interferon alfa and tribavirin in rabies encephalitis.

Warrell MJ(1), White NJ, Looareesuwan S, Phillips RE, Suntharasamai P,
Chanthavanich P, Riganti M, Fisher-Hoch SP, Nicholson KG, Manatsathit S, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University,
Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To test the effect of interferon alfa and tribavirin (ribavirin) in
patients with rabies encephalitis.
DESIGN: An open trial of chemotherapy and intensive care in patients with early
rabies.
SETTING: The intensive care unit of a Bangkok hospital.
PATIENTS: Four conscious men with clinical rabies encephalitis.
INTERVENTIONS: Rapid virological diagnosis of rabies. Treatment with intravenous 
and intraventricular injections of high doses of lymphoblastoid interferon alfa
in three patients and tribavirin in one patient. Intensive care was given
throughout.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Rabies infection confirmed by antigen detection and virus 
isolation. Rabies neutralising antibody and specific IgM sought in serum and
cerebrospinal fluid. Interferon concentrations monitored before and during
treatment in three patients.
RESULTS: Interferon alfa treatment produced high concentrations in serum and
cerebrospinal fluid. All four patients died after 5 1/2 to 12 1/2 days of
treatment with no evidence of virostatic or clinically beneficial effects from
either treatment.
CONCLUSION: Interferon alfa treatment is not effective in rabies encephalitis.
The use of tribavirin warrants further study, possibly combined with new
therapeutic methods.

PMCID: PMC1837695
PMID: 2510846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. BMJ. 1989 Sep 30;299(6703):826-30.

Zinc supplementation during pregnancy: a double blind randomised controlled
trial.

Mahomed K(1), James DK, Golding J, McCabe R.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Avondale, Harare, Zimbabwe.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether zinc supplementation during pregnancy improves maternal
and fetal outcome.
DESIGN: Prospective study started at booking and continued till discharge of
mother and baby from the maternity hospital. Mothers were randomly assigned to
receive zinc supplementation or placebo in a double blind trial.
SETTING: Mothers booking at one hospital.
PATIENTS: Women booking before 20 weeks of gestation who agreed to take part in
the study. 494 Mothers were followed up till the end of pregnancy. There was no
difference between the groups given zinc and placebo in their social or medical
backgrounds.
INTERVENTIONS: Mothers in the active treatment group received one capsule of 20
mg elemental zinc daily and those in the placebo treated group a capsule
identical in appearance and taste with the active capsule but which contained
inert substances.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Various adverse outcomes were tested, including maternal
bleeding, hypertension, complications of labour and delivery, gestational age,
Apgar scores, and neonatal abnormalities. The main outcome measure was birth
weight.
RESULTS: There were no differences whatsoever between mothers given a zinc
supplement and those given a placebo.
CONCLUSION: Zinc supplementation in pregnancy in the United Kingdom does not seem
to offer any benefits to the mother or her fetus.

PMCID: PMC1837690
PMID: 2510845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. BMJ. 1989 Sep 30;299(6703):819-21.

Declining incidence of AIDS dementia complex after introduction of zidovudine
treatment.

Portegies P(1), de Gans J, Lange JM, Derix MM, Speelman H, Bakker M, Danner SA,
Goudsmit J.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Nov 4;299(6708):1141.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1218.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incidence of the AIDS dementia complex and the presence 
of HIV I p24 antigen in cerebrospinal fluid in relation to zidovudine treatment.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of a consecutive series of patients with AIDS from
1982 to 1988.
SETTING: An academic centre for AIDS.
PATIENTS: 196 Patients with AIDS and neurological symptoms examined from 1982 to 
1988.
INTERVENTIONS: Zidovudine treatment, which was introduced to The Netherlands on 1
May 1987 for patients with severe symptoms of HIV infection (Centers for Disease 
Control groups IVA, B, C, and D).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Diagnosis of AIDS dementia complex and presence of HIV I
p24 antigen in cerebrospinal fluid.
RESULTS: The AIDS dementia complex was diagnosed in 40 of the 196 (20%) patients 
with AIDS. Thirty eight of 107 patients with AIDS (36%) not taking zidovudine
developed the AIDS dementia complex compared with two of the 89 (2%) taking the
drug (p less than 0.00001). The incidence of the AIDS dementia complex increased 
to 53% in the first half of 1987, after the introduction of zidovudine in May
1987, decreasing to 10% in the second half of 1987 and to 3% in 1988. Dementia
was diagnosed before definition of the AIDS dementia complex (1986) according to 
DSM-III criteria and there was good agreement between diagnosis before and after 
1986. Sixteen of 61 samples of cerebrospinal fluid (26%) from patients with AIDS 
(10 with the AIDS dementia complex) not taking zidovudine were positive for HIV I
p24 antigen, whereas none of 37 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients with
AIDS (two with the AIDS dementia complex) taking zidovudine were positive.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of AIDS dementia complex in patients with AIDS
declined after the introduction of systematic treatment with zidovudine; the AIDS
dementia complex might be prevented by inhibiting viral replication in the
central nervous system.

PMCID: PMC1837716
PMID: 2510843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. BMJ. 1989 Sep 23;299(6702):759-62.

Depot medroxyprogesterone (Depo-Provera) and risk of breast cancer.

Paul C(1), Skegg DC, Spears GF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, New
Zealand.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1099.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether use of the injectable contraceptive depot
medroxyprogesterone acetate (Depo-Provera) affects the risk of breast cancer in
women.
DESIGN: A population based case-control study.
SETTING: Nationwide community study.
SUBJECTS: 891 Women aged 25-54 with newly diagnosed breast cancer were compared
with 1864 women selected at random from the electoral rolls.
INTERVENTION: Women were interviewed by telephone about past use of
contraceptives and about possible risk factors for breast cancer.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Relative risk of breast cancer in women who had used
medroxyprogesterone.
RESULTS: Medroxyprogesterone had been used by 110 patients and 252 controls.
Overall, the relative risk of breast cancer associated with any duration of use
was 1.0 (95% confidence interval 0.80 to 1.3). In women aged 25-34 the relative
risk was 2.0 (1.0 to 3.8). The relative risk was highest in women aged 25-34 who 
had used the drug for six years or longer, although there were few women in this 
category. Women who had used it for two years or longer before age 25 had an
increased risk of breast cancer (relative risk 4.6; 1.4 to 15.1).
CONCLUSION: Despite the lack of an overall association these findings suggest
that medroxyprogesterone may increase the risk of breast cancer in young women.

PMCID: PMC1837651
PMID: 2529939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. BMJ. 1989 Sep 23;299(6702):779-81.

Application of airline pilots' hours to junior doctors.

Wilson AM(1), Weston G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anaesthetics, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 14;299(6705):974-5.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the staff required if the rules for airline pilots' hours
of work are applied to junior doctors.
DESIGN: Junior anaesthetists recorded their workload from 1 March 1988 to May 31 
1988.
SETTING: District general hospital.
SUBJECTS: Two groups of three junior anaesthetists sharing a one in three rota to
provide continuous emergency cover.
INTERVENTIONS: By using the guidelines published by the Civil Aviation Authority 
in The Avoidance of Excessive Fatigue in Aircrews schedules were drawn up to
cover the hours that junior doctors had been on duty.
RESULTS: Each anaesthetist provided emergency and routine cover for 48-112 (mean 
75) hours each week. To cover the work of six junior anaesthetists on an annual
basis would require 26 doctors if they were working within the Civil Aviation
Authority's guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: Junior anaesthetists' hours are much longer than those of airline
pilots. Both professions entail considerable periods of monitoring interspersed
with episodes of high demands on physical and cognitive skills. Errors induced by
fatigue made by anaesthetists and pilots could result in death. The medical
profession should define rules similar to those of the aviation authority to
prevent junior doctors having to work unsafe numbers of hours.

PMCID: PMC1837606
PMID: 2508922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. BMJ. 1989 Sep 23;299(6702):771-3.

Case-control study of infections with Salmonella enteritidis phage type 4 in
England.

Cowden JM(1), Lynch D, Joseph CA, O'Mahony M, Mawer SL, Rowe B, Bartlett CL.

Author information: 
(1)PHLS Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 11;299(6709):1223.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the source of indigenous sporadic infection with
Salmonella enteritidis phage type 4.
DESIGN: Case-control study of primary sporadic cases identified by the Public
Health Laboratory Service between 1 August and 30 September 1988.
SETTING: PHLS Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre, Division of Enteric
Pathogens, 11 PHLS laboratories, and 42 local authority environmental health
departments in England.
SUBJECTS: 232 Patients (cases) with confirmed primary sporadic infection, for 160
of whom (88 female) (median age 30 years, age range 4 months to 85 years) data
were obtained by questionnaire about consumption of fresh eggs, egg products,
precooked chicken, and minced meat in the three days and one week before onset of
the symptoms. Up to three controls, matched for neighbourhood, age, and sex (if
aged greater than 11 years), were asked the same questions for the same calendar 
period.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Association of primary sporadic infection with consumption 
of suspected food items.
RESULTS: Illness due to S enteritidis phage type 4 was significantly associated
with consumption of raw shell egg products (homemade mayonnaise, ice cream, and
milk drinks containing eggs) (matched p = 0.02) and shop bought sandwiches
containing mayonnaise (matched p = 0.00004) or eggs (matched p = 0.02). Illness
was also significantly associated with eating lightly cooked eggs (unmatched p = 
0.02), but not soft boiled eggs, and precooked hot chicken (matched p = 0.006).
Reported consumption of eggs was not appreciably different between cases and
controls before or after the median date of interview.
CONCLUSIONS: Fresh shell eggs, egg products, and precooked hot chicken are
vehicles of S enteritidis phage type 4 infection in indigenous sporadic cases.
Public health education and reduction in contamination of eggs and infection of
poultry with S enteritidis are needed to reduce the incidence of human infection.

PMCID: PMC1837639
PMID: 2508916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. BMJ. 1989 Sep 23;299(6702):767-70.

Independent effects of weight change and attained body weight on prevalence of
arterial hypertension in obese and non-obese men.

Sonne-Holm S(1), Sørensen TI, Jensen G, Schnohr P.

Author information: 
(1)Obesity Research Group, Hvidovre University Hospital, Copenhagen.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1281-2.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relations among prevalence of arterial hypertension,
history of weight change, and current body weight in the range from normal weight
to severe obesity.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of medical records of men registered with Danish
military authorities from 1943 to 1977 and followed up four to 40 years later.
SETTING: Draft board of Copenhagen and surrounding counties and the rest of
Sjaelland and surrounding islands.
SUBJECTS: 964 Men who were severely obese (body mass index greater than or equal 
to kg/m2 at the first examination) and 1134 random controls.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Blood pressure and weight.
RESULTS: Hypertension was more prevalent in subjects with an unchanged body mass 
index as that index increased over the range studied. At any body mass index
hypertension was more prevalent in subjects who had increased to this index and
less common in those who had decreased to it than in those who had stayed the
same weight since the first examination. Hypertension among controls was most
common in those subjects who had become obese during adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in body weight have a great influence on arterial
hypertension independent of the effect of attained weight, particularly in obese 
subjects.

PMCID: PMC1837623
PMID: 2508915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. BMJ. 1989 Sep 23;299(6702):762-7.

Outcome of elective prostatectomy.

Neal DE(1), Ramsden PD, Sharples L, Smith A, Powell PH, Styles RA, Webb RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 21;299(6706):1030.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the symptomatic and urodynamic outcome of elective
prostatectomy and to establish whether the outcome is influenced or can be
predicted by preoperative urodynamic measurements.
DESIGN: Prospective non-randomised study with follow up at a mean of 11 months
after operation. Most men were assessed jointly by a urologist and a general
practitioner.
SETTING: Department of urology in a teaching hospital serving a large district
population.
PATIENTS: 253 Men listed for elective prostatectomy because of symptoms and low
urinary flow rates (less than 15 ml/s) and excluding those already on a waiting
list or with acute urinary retention, clinically apparent prostatic cancer, and
neurological or cerebrovascular disease; 217 (86%) were followed up.
INTERVENTION: Elective prostatectomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Classification on the basis of relief of symptoms assessed 
by patients and urologist and general practitioner and of symptom scores obtained
by questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of the 217 men followed up, 171 (79%) had a satisfactory subjective
review and 155 (72%) had a satisfactory review and also low symptom scores. An
unsatisfactory outcome was associated with preoperative symptoms of urge
incontinence, small prostatic size and resected weight, low voiding pressures,
and low urethral resistance. Preoperative maximum urinary flow rates did not
predict outcome. Men with poor outcome could be classified into two groups: those
with irritative symptoms who were more likely before operation to have had urge
incontinence and detrusor instability and men with symptoms of poor urinary flow 
who were more likely before operation to have had a small prostate, low voiding
pressures, and low urethral resistance. In patients in the second group flow
rates or voiding pressures improved little after operation. Men with stable
detrusors and either low urethral resistance or low voiding pressures were less
likely to do well after prostatectomy, but despite these associations
preoperative urodynamic measurements were unable to predict outcome accurately.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostatectomy was satisfactory in relieving symptoms and improving
urodynamic measurements in most men, but even in those with classic symptoms and 
low urinary flow rates a substantial minority experienced little improvement
afterwards and urodynamic measurements did not accurately predict outcome in
individual patients.

PMCID: PMC1837610
PMID: 2508914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1989 Sep 20;109(26):2659-61.

[Duodenal injuries due to blunt trauma].

[Article in Norwegian]

Nesbakken A, Buanes T, Gerner T, Naess F, Stadaas JO.

During the last ten years we have seen fourteen patients with duodenal injury
after blunt trauma. Five patients with intramural hematomas received no
treatment. Nine patients had a perforated duodenal wall, and in four of these the
diagnosis was delayed for more than 24 hours. Revision and primary suture were
carried out in seven patients, with no complications. In one patient, where the
diagnosis was delayed for three days, the perforation was closed around a Pezzer 
catheter for external drainage. She developed an intraabdominal abscess which
required reoperation. One patient died from liver injury with profuse bleeding;
the others survived without sequelae from the duodenal injury.CONCLUSIONS:
Duodenal injuries are rare and early diagnosis is difficult. We think that
frequently repeated physical examinations, liberal use of diagnostic peritoneal
lavage, and careful peroperative exploration of the entire duodenum when
performing laparotomy after abdominal injuries, are important for early diagnosis
and treatment.

PMID: 2814993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):722-4.

Referrals from general practice to hospital outpatient departments: a strategy
for improvement.

Emmanuel J, Walter N.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the appropriateness of referrals from general practice to
hospital outpatient departments.
DESIGN: Prospective audit of referrals from a group practice over one year.
SETTING: Six handed practice in a southern coastal town.
SUBJECTS: All patients referred during the study period for whom a copy of the
referral letter was available.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The investigations carried out by the consultant that led 
to the diagnosis; the diagnosis reached; and the management.
RESULTS: Of roughly 3000 patients referred during the year, 277 with various skin
and soft tissue disorders could probably have been managed solely by the general 
practitioner. Referrals for cryotherapy (96 in this series) and diabetes (19)
could probably also have been avoided by specialist training of the general
practitioner. In addition, in cases of haematuria and prostatic hypertrophy (34
and 22 referrals) substantial time could have been saved for both the patient and
the consultant had the general practitioner supplied the results of relevant
investigations. Probably the most important outcome was the model that the study 
offered for other general practitioners to improve the appropriateness of
referrals.
CONCLUSION: This approach to determining the appropriateness of referrals
benefits the general practitioners, the consultant, and the patient.

PMCID: PMC1837521
PMID: 2508890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):713-7.

Psychological and social problems in HIV infection: interviews with general
practitioners in London.

King MB.

Author information: 
Institute of Psychiatry, London.

OBJECTIVE: To assess current practice and opinions of general practitioners in
London about managing psychological and social problems relating to HIV
infection.
DESIGN: A stratified random sample of general practitioners, including those with
a range of experience of people with HIV infection, were interviewed by medically
trained interviewers.
SETTING: Doctor's surgeries.
PARTICIPANTS: 270 General practitioners working within the area covered by London
postcodes.
RESULTS: Two thirds of doctors had treated at least one patient with HIV
infection and described their work with these patients. General practitioners
were counselling and educating many of their patients about AIDS and associated
risk behaviours and were aware of the need for careful attention to
confidentiality. Doctors with no experience of patients with HIV infection were
often older, in singlehanded practice, less inclined to deal with drug abusers or
to counsel their patients on risk behaviours, and more in favour of insurance
companies' policies towards people with HIV infection.
CONCLUSIONS: General practitioners in London are quickly becoming involved in the
care of patients with HIV infection and their relatives and friends. Many are
counselling patients and testing for antibodies themselves and regard this as an 
integral part of their work. A considerable workload in primary care comprised
patients who obsessively fear contracting HIV infection.

KIE: A random sample of 270 general practitioners in London was interviewed to
assess current practice and opinions about managing psychological and social
problems related to HIV infection. Physicians caring for patients with HIV
infection were asked about numbers of patients in their pratice with HIV or AIDS;
consultation with third parties such as sexual partners or family; reports to
employers and other third parties; terminal care; contact with HIV clinics;
testing for HIV infection without consent; and the impact of patients with HIV
infection on their practice. All physicians were asked about patients concerned
with HIV infection; awareness of other health resources for patients with HIV
infection; terminal care; "safer sex" education; confidentiality; interest in
AIDS; intravenous drug users as patients; managing homosexual patients; and
ethical considerations. King discusses the findings and draws conclusions about
primary care of HIV-infected patients in London.
PMCID: PMC1837486
PMID: 2508884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):706-9.

Collected and neglected: are Oxford hostels for the homeless filling up with
disabled psychiatric patients?

Marshall M.

Author information: 
Littlemore Hospital, Oxford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1101.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the severity of psychiatric symptoms among residents of
hostels for homeless people.
DESIGN: Survey of residents in two hostels in Oxford, comprising three weeks of
background fieldwork, a demographic questionnaire, and rating behaviour over two 
weeks with a behavioural rating scale (REHAB) and mental state with the brief
psychiatric rating scale.
SETTING: Two hostels for homeless people in Oxford.
SUBJECTS: 146 Medium to long term residents, of whom 48 were selected by hostel
workers by the following criteria: continuous residence for at least two months, 
signs of persistent severe mental disability, and difficulty in coping
independently in the community. Two subjects died during the study; three
(previously long term psychiatric inpatients) declined to be assessed on the
psychiatric scale.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Behavioural disturbance and mental state.
RESULTS: Only a third of the total sample had been born in Oxfordshire. Subjects 
had been accepted into the hostel either by arrangement with the local
psychiatric service (22) or straight off the streets (26); 43 had had a previous 
(non-drug related) psychiatric admission. Subjects were significantly more likely
than other residents to have spent longer (greater than 80 weeks) in a hostel in 
the past three years (p less than 0.02). With reference to norms for deviant
behaviour, the 46 subjects assessed showed considerable deviant behaviour
(average weekly scores: 0 (11 subjects), 1 (14), 2-3 (16), and greater than or
equal to 4 (5] not significantly different from that expected in moderately to
severely handicapped psychiatric inpatients (chi 2 = 1.3, df = 3, p greater than 
0.7); 22 had scores equivalent to those in most severely handicapped inpatients. 
Of the 43 subjects assessed with the psychiatric rating scale, 16 had symptoms of
neurosis, 29 of florid psychosis, and 32 of a deficit state. Symptoms of deficit 
state were positively correlated with ratings of low social activity on the
behavioural scale (Spearman's rank correlation coefficient 0.30, p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Hostels are having to care for long term severely affected
psychiatric patients discharged into the community. The suitability of the
services offered to such subjects should be assessed.

PMCID: PMC1837517
PMID: 2508882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):703-6.

Development of hypertension and uraemia after pyelonephritis in childhood: 27
year follow up.

Jacobson SH(1), Eklöf O, Eriksson CG, Lins LE, Tidgren B, Winberg J.

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Determination of the long term incidence of uraemia, hypertension, and
toxaemia in pregnancy associated with non-obstructive focal renal scarring after 
pyelonephritis in childhood 25-35 years earlier.
DESIGN: 27 Year follow up of patients with non-obstructive focal scarring
identified from a retrospective review of intravenous urograms performed in
childhood between 1951 and 1967.
SETTING: Paediatric primary referral centre and urological clinic in tertiary
referral centre.
PATIENTS: 30 Patients (mean age 33 (range 22-41] with non-obstructive focal renal
scarring first detected between 1951 and 1967 and a history of febrile urinary
tract infection.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Hypertension and complications of renal damage.
RESULTS: Three patients had developed end stage renal disease, seven had
developed hypertension, two of 16 women had a history of toxaemia during
pregnancy, and seven patients had undergone renal surgery during follow up. Of
the 20 patients who had neither had renal surgery nor had end stage renal
disease, all had a significantly lower glomerular filtration rate and renal
plasma flow and higher diastolic blood pressure, mean arterial blood pressure,
plasma renin activity, and serum beta 2 microglobulin concentration than 13
healthy age matched controls. Diastolic blood pressure and plasma renin activity 
were positively correlated (r = 0.50, p less than 0.05) and so were fractional
sodium excretion and both systolic and diastolic blood pressures (r = 0.54, p
less than 0.01, r = 0.51, p less than 0.01 respectively). The progress of renal
damage was unrelated to the incidence of recurrent infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with focal renal scarring due to pyelonephritis are at high
risk of serious long term consequences. It is essential that they are given
adequate attention and care during adolescence and pregnancy.

PMCID: PMC1837515
PMID: 2508881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):479-83.

Glomerulonephritis caused by chronic hepatitis B virus infection: treatment with 
recombinant human alpha-interferon.

Lisker-Melman M(1), Webb D, Di Bisceglie AM, Kassianides C, Martin P, Rustgi V,
Waggoner JG, Park Y, Hoofnagle JH.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda,
Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy of alpha-interferon therapy in patients 
with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related glomerulonephritis.
DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized study.
PATIENTS: Five patients with persistence of hepatitis B surface antigen,
hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and HBV DNA in serum for at least 6 months and
histologic changes of chronic hepatitis on liver biopsy as well as persistent
proteinuria of greater than 2 g/d and histologic changes of glomerulonephritis on
renal biopsy.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received a 4-month course of recombinant human
alpha-interferon (alfa-2b) beginning at a dose of 5 million units administered
subcutaneously each day.
RESULTS: Serum levels of HBV DNA decreased in all patients and fell to
undetectable levels during treatment in four of five patients. In the four
responding patients, serum HBeAg disappeared, aminotransferases fell into the
normal range, and a follow-up liver biopsy showed an improvement in the
hepatocyte necrosis and inflammation. Urine protein excretion also decreased
during treatment. In the four responding patients, urine protein excretion
gradually fell to less than 1 g/d and serum albumin levels rose into the normal
range. Resolution of the biochemical and serologic evidence of chronic hepatitis 
and glomerulonephritis was accompanied by disappearance of signs and symptoms of 
liver and kidney disease.
CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of patients with HBV-related glomerulonephritis
will respond to a 4-month course of alpha-interferon with a clinical,
biochemical, and serologic remission.

PMID: 2774373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):473-8.

Is liver biopsy useful in the evaluation of patients with chronically elevated
liver enzymes?

Van Ness MM(1), Diehl AM.

Author information: 
(1)Bethesda Naval Hospital, Maryland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Feb 15;112(4):311.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the diagnostic usefulness of percutaneous liver
biopsy in evaluating patients with chronically elevated liver-associated enzymes.
DESIGN: Comparison of diagnosis made before biopsy by one physician on the basis 
of a noninvasive work-up (history, physical examination, laboratory values, and
imaging studies) and final diagnosis made after biopsy by a second physician
formulated after review of all available noninvasive information and study of the
biopsy specimen.
SETTING: Referral-based gastroenterology clinic at a U.S. Navy medical center.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of 107 patients with elevated liver-associated
enzymes for a minimum of 3 months. Ninety patients were eligible for study.
INTERVENTIONS: The final diagnosis made by the second physician blinded to the
first clinician's diagnosis served as the criterion standard.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Four diagnostic groups were selected for analysis:
Alcoholic liver disease, fatty liver, chronic necroinflammatory diseases, and
miscellaneous. The positive predictive value of the prebiopsy diagnosis ranged
from 88% (CI, 75% to 100%) for alcoholic liver disease to 56% (CI, 37% to 75%)
for fatty liver. Higher elevations of transaminase values (greater than three
times the upper limit of normal) correlated positively with increased prebiopsy
diagnostic accuracy. Fatty liver was present in 19% of the cohort. Liver diseases
requiring specific therapy other than alcohol abstinence were overlooked and
diagnosed only after review of the biopsy in five cases. Conversely, four cases
of liver disease, thought to require specific therapy on the basis of noninvasive
work-up, were ruled out by biopsy.
CONCLUSION: The cause of chronic liver disease is best elucidated when the
noninvasive work-up is complemented by review of a biopsy specimen.

PMID: 2774372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):466-72.

Prevalence of regurgitant murmurs in patients with valvular regurgitation
detected by Doppler echocardiography.

Rahko PS.

Author information: 
University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 15;112(2):148-9.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the relation between heart valve regurgitation
detected by Doppler echocardiography and audible regurgitant murmurs.
DESIGN: Consecutive sample.
SETTING: Adult echocardiography laboratory in a tertiary care university
hospital.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of 408 patients presenting for clinical
echocardiographic studies who had technically satisfactory studies and were
available for auscultation.
MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: Valvular regurgitation occurred in 43% of patients 
at the mitral valve, 39% of patients at the tricuspid valve, 33% of patients at
the aortic valve, and 15% of patients at the pulmonic valve. Corresponding
regurgitant murmurs were frequently absent. A murmur corresponding to
Doppler-detected regurgitation was detected in 56% of patients with mitral
regurgitation, 61% of patients with aortic regurgitation, 28% of patients with
tricuspid regurgitation, and 15% of patients with pulmonic regurgitation. There
was a highly significant positive correlation of audibility with severity of
valve regurgitation for the aortic, tricuspid, and mitral valves. Audibility
ranged from 10% to 40% for mild regurgitation to 86% to 100% for severe
regurgitation. Murmur audibility was not related to the type of valvular disease 
present.
CONCLUSIONS: Doppler echocardiography is a sensitive method for detecting valve
regurgitation. Corresponding regurgitant murmurs are frequently not present. The 
audibility of regurgitant murmur is highly dependent on the severity of valve
regurgitant and has little relation to the type of valve disease present.

PMID: 2774371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):517-24.

Surviving adult cancers. Part 2: Psychosocial implications.

Welch-McCaffrey D(1), Hoffman B, Leigh SA, Loescher LJ, Meyskens FL Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Arizona Cancer Center, Tucson.

PURPOSE: To address the psychosocial implications of surviving adult cancers by a
comprehensive review of the literature.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: An English-language literature search using MEDLINE (1970 to
1988). Index Medicus (1970 to 1988), and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and
review articles.
STUDY SELECTION: Of 103 originally identified articles, 58 that specifically
addressed the stated purpose were selected.
DATA EXTRACTION: Four authors reviewed and critiqued the literature extrapolating
the major themes on this topic.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: There is little information on the many psychosocial
variables that affect an adult's long-term cancer survival trajectory. Collation 
of data identified the following significant psychosocial themes: fear of
recurrence and death, relationships with the health care team, adjustment to
physical compromise, alterations in customary social support, isolationism,
psychosocial reorientation, and employment and insurance problems.
CONCLUSIONS: The continuation of a rehabilitation effort begun around the initial
diagnosis of cancer would be instrumental in providing post-therapy evaluation
and guidance needed by adult long-term survivors of cancer. Education, research, 
and support interventions need to be mobilized for this population of adults with
a history of cancer.

PMID: 2672926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):455-65.

Amiprilose hydrochloride for rheumatoid arthritis.

Riskin WG(1), Gillings DB, Scarlett JA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Miami School of Medicine, Florida.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and efficacy of amiprilose hydrochloride
(HCl), a novel synthetic carbohydrate with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory
properties, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
DESIGN: Prospective, multicenter, randomized, parallel group, double-blind
placebo-controlled 12-week trial.
PATIENTS: Two hundred and one functional class I and II patients with definite or
classic rheumatoid arthritis, previously untreated with disease modifying
antirheumatic drugs.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were withdrawn from nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug
therapy. Those who flared were randomly assigned to amiprilose HCl, 6 g/d, or
placebo for 12 weeks. No concomitant anti-inflammatory or antirheumatic drug
therapy was permitted during the study. Combination acetaminophen and
propoxyphene napsylate was the only supplemental analgesic medication allowed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The number of painful joints and swollen joints,
joint pain and joint swelling indices, left and right grip strength, investigator
global assessment, and patient global assessment returned to baseline for the
amiprilose group and showed statistically significant (P less than 0.05)
differences from the placebo group within 4 to 6 weeks. The protocol criteria for
overall therapeutic response were satisfied by 41% of the amiprilose patients,
compared with 21% of the placebo group (P = 0.003). Approximately 0.5 tablet per 
day less analgesic medication was taken by the amiprilose group (P less than 0.05
at weeks 6 and 12). There were no statistically significant differences in
morning stiffness, walking time, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive
protein, or rheumatoid factor between the groups. A similar number of adverse
experiences were reported by the patients on amiprilose (67%) and on placebo
(63%). One patient on amiprilose developed thrombocytopenia of unknown cause; no 
other reported adverse effects were serious.
CONCLUSIONS: Amiprilose HCl has significant anti-inflammatory activity and a
favorable safety profile when used as the sole antirheumatic therapy in patients 
with active rheumatoid arthritis. Synthetic carbohydrates may represent an
important new class of drugs for the treatment of inflammatory, autoimmune
diseases.

PMID: 2672925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):525-32.

Decisions about resuscitation: inequities among patients with different diseases 
but similar prognoses.

Wachter RM(1), Luce JM, Hearst N, Lo B.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University, California.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 15;111(12):1046.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether decisions about "do-not-resuscitate" (DNR)
orders are made equitably in patients with different diseases but similar
prognoses.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Three teaching hospitals: a university referral center, a county
hospital serving a largely indigent population, and a Veterans Administration
hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive patients with any of the four following discharge
diagnoses: the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (100 patients);
unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer (51 patients); cirrhosis with esophageal 
varices (51 patients); and severe congestive heart failure with coronary artery
disease (115 patients).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Do-not-resuscitate orders were written for 52% of 
patients with AIDS and 47% of patients with cancer but for only 16% of patients
with cirrhosis and 5% of patients with congestive heart failure (P less than
0.0001). Although DNR orders were associated with functional and mental status,
reason for admission, and severity of illness, the strong association between DNR
orders and disease category persisted after adjustment for these potential
confounders by multiple logistic regression. A survey of housestaff showed that
DNR orders were discussed more frequently with patients who had AIDS or lung
cancer than with patients who had cirrhosis or heart failure, despite an accurate
understanding of the generally similar prognoses among the four groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite relatively similar prognoses, patients with AIDS or lung
cancer are much more likely to receive DNR orders than patients with cirrhosis or
severe congestive heart failure. This discrepancy cannot be explained by
differences in severity of illness among patients or by misunderstandings of
prognosis by clinicians. From our data, we cannot determine if patients with
cirrhosis or heart failure receive too few DNR orders or if patients with AIDS or
lung cancer receive too many. Our findings should encourage physicians to
determine the preferences of patients about life-sustaining treatments more
equitably.

PMID: 2549825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):484-8.

Parathyroid hormone-related protein in adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma.

Motokura T(1), Fukumoto S, Matsumoto T, Takahashi S, Fujita A, Yamashita T,
Igarashi T, Ogata E.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tokyo School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether parathyroid hormone-related protein is
synthesized and secreted by the tumor cells of patients with adult T-cell
leukemia-lymphoma.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: Convenience sample of three patients with adult T-cell
leukemia-lymphoma. Two patients developed hypercalcemia, and one patient was
normocalcemic.
SETTING: Inpatient facilities at two university-affiliated medical centers.
INTERVENTION: All patients had a lymph node biopsy. In addition, samples of
ascitic or pleural fluid, or both, were obtained from these patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Using RNA blot analysis, we showed that parathyroid
hormone-related protein (PTHrP) messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were constitutively
expressed in the tumor cells from all patients. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate
(cAMP) production-stimulating activity, assessed using osteoblast-like UMR106
cells, was demonstrated in the pleural and ascitic fluids from the two patients
who developed hypercalcemia. The elution profiles of the cAMP
production-stimulating activity in the ascitic fluid extracts were very similar
to those of the tumor extracts from hypercalcemic nude rats that had been
implanted with a human cancer tumor.
CONCLUSIONS: Parathyroid hormone-related protein is produced by tumor cells in
adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma, which may be an important factor in the
development of hypercalcemia in the patients with this disease. However, the
development of hypercalcemia may depend on other factors such as the number of
tumor cells, access of the protein into systemic circulation, and the presence of
some additional substances.

PMID: 2549824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):489-502.

The resting electrocardiogram as a screening test. A clinical analysis.

Sox HC Jr(1), Garber AM, Littenberg B.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

PURPOSE: To review the evidence that a resting electrocardiogram (ECG) predicts
cardiac disease in healthy persons and to discuss the role of this test in
screening for coronary artery disease.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: A manual search of the English-language literature using
Index Medicus (1970-1988) and a bibliographic review of identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: We found 40 articles that described long-term survival of
healthy individuals who either had had an abnormal finding on a resting ECG or
had not had an abnormal finding.
DATA EXTRACTION: We pooled the pertinent studies and calculated the relative risk
for coronary artery disease if an ECG finding was present and the 95% confidence 
limits (CI) on the relative risk. RESULTS OF ANALYSIS: One reason for doing a
screening SCG is to detect disease whose effects can be prevented by early
treatment. In population studies of healthy middle-aged men, frequent ventricular
premature beats, left axis deviation, left ventricular hypertrophy (ECG-LVH), and
changes indicative of myocardial ischemia are all associated with a small but
statistically significant increase in the risk of dying from coronary artery
disease. There is no evidence that early detection of these findings leads to a
clinical intervention that improves health outcomes. A screening ECG can also
serve as a "baseline" tracing. Two studies have shown that the baseline tracing
has little effect on decision making in the emergency room.
CONCLUSION: The evidence does not support doing a screening ECG in men without
evidence of cardiac disease or cardiovascular risk factors.

PMID: 2528311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):503-16.

Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and progressive renal insufficiency.
Current experience and future directions.

Keane WF(1), Anderson S, Aurell M, de Zeeuw D, Narins RG, Povar G.

Author information: 
(1)Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):451-3.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To review the rationale for using angiotensin converting enzyme 
(ACE) inhibitors in progressive renal disease, and to evaluate the experience
with these agents in patients with hypertension and renal insufficiency.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Experimental and clinical studies published from January
1977 to November 1988 were identified by searching the literature and by
extensive hand searching of bibliographies of identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: Experimental studies of glomerular function during therapy with 
ACE inhibitors or other antihypertensive regimens were reviewed. Series using ACE
inhibitors for treating hypertensive patients with renal disease were evaluated
and reports of adverse events were studied.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Experimentally, ACE inhibitors seem to decrease
glomerular injury by reducing both systemic and glomerular hypertension.
Clinically, ACE inhibitors reduce systemic blood pressure in hypertensive
patients with diabetic and nondiabetic renal disease without causing dramatic
changes in glomerular filtration rate or renal blood flow. Most studies of
nondiabetic renal insufficiency suggest that proteinuria is reduced in most
patients. However, no long-term controlled study on the effect of ACE inhibitors 
on the progression rate of nondiabetic renal disease has been completed. ACE
inhibitors have not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
for treating or preventing progressive renal disease. Such use would therefore be
considered "innovative" therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: ACE inhibitors are tolerated by azotemic patients, although
transient reductions in renal function can occur. Patients with bilateral renal
insufficiency or low cardiac output are at increased risk for developing
reversible acute renal insufficiency. Hyperkalemia may occur, particularly in
patients with diabetes or severe renal insufficiency. In many patients with renal
disease, ACE inhibitors dramatically reduce proteinuria, but whether they also
reduce the rate of progression of renal disease remains unproved.

PMID: 2491421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):652-6.

Randomised controlled trial of lymphoblastoid interferon alfa in Europid men with
chronic hepatitis B virus infection.

Brook MG(1), Chan G, Yap I, Karayiannis P, Lever AM, Jacyna M, Main J, Thomas HC.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Medicine, St Mary's Hospital Medical School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To confirm the findings of pilot studies that interferon alfa is an
effective treatment of Europid men with chronic hepatitis B virus infection.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled trial of three months treatment with interferon
alfa followed by 12 months of observation.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic of a tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: 37 Treated men (six anti-HIV positive) and 34 untreated men (nine
anti-HIV positive) who met the criteria for the trial. Four controls failed to
complete follow up.
INTERVENTIONS: The treated group received subcutaneous injections of 5-10 MU
interferon alfa/m2 daily for five days, then 10 MU/m2 thrice weekly for 11 weeks.
Follow up continued at monthly intervals for 12 months. Untreated controls were
monitored over the same period.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Hepatitis B e antigen and hepatitis B virus DNA state after
15 months of observation.
RESULTS: 12 Of the 37 treated patients cleared hepatitis B e antigen and
hepatitis B virus DNA, whereas only one of 30 untreated controls seroconverted
over the same period--an increased response rate of 29% (95% confidence interval 
13% to 45%). The life table estimate of response at 15 months was 35% in treated 
patients, an increase of 32% above controls (95% confidence interval 16% to 48%).
The response rates in groups by predictive pretreatment variables were 12 of 31
anti-HIV negative patients (excess response 34%; 95% confidence interval 14% to
54%), 12 of 26 with chronic active hepatitis before treatment (excess response
46%; 27% to 65%), and 12 of 21 with a pretreatment serum aspartate
aminotransferase activity greater than 70 IU/l (excess response 46%; 16% to 76%).
The combination of these factors predicted response with a sensitivity of 100%
and a specificity of 80%. Four of the 12 responders, who had all been infected
for less than two years, also lost hepatitis B surface antigen. Treatment was
well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Interferon alfa is effective in the treatment of a proportion of
Europid men with chronic hepatitis B virus infection, who might be identified
before treatment. Additional strategies are required to improve the rate of
response.

PMCID: PMC1837558
PMID: 2508850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):649-51.

Survey of colourings and preservatives in drugs.

Pollock I(1), Young E, Stoneham M, Slater N, Wilkinson JD, Warner JO.

Author information: 
(1)Heart and Lung Institute, Brompton Hospital, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1099.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence of colourings and preservatives in drug
formulations in the United Kingdom.
DESIGN: Postal survey.
PARTICIPANTS: All pharmaceutical manufacturers in the United Kingdom were
requested to supply data on drug formulations with particular regard to the
content of colourings and preservatives.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Prevalence in proprietary drugs of colourings or
preservatives, or both, that have been implicated in adverse reactions.
Computation of a list of formulations of bronchodilators, antihistamines, and
antibiotics that are free of such additives.
RESULTS: A total of 118 out of 120 pharmaceutical companies supplied the data
requested. In all, 2204 drug formulations were analysed and found to contain 419 
different additives, of which 52 were colourings and preservatives that have been
implicated in adverse reactions; 930 formulations contained such an additive.
Tartrazine was the fourth most commonly occurring colouring, being present in 124
drug formulations.
CONCLUSION: Many drugs contain additives that help to identify them and prolong
their shelf life but are implicated in adverse reactions in some people. Some
form of labelling of drug additives would enable these people to avoid drugs
containing such additives.

PMCID: PMC1837544
PMID: 2508849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):647-9.

Short term outcome in babies refused perinatal intensive care.

Sidhu H(1), Heasley RN, Patterson CC, Halliday HL, Thompson W.

Author information: 
(1)Belfast City Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the mortality in babies refused admission to a regional
perinatal centre with that in babies accepted for intensive care in the centre.
DESIGN: Retrospective study with group comparison.
SETTING: Based at the Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast, with follow up of
patients in all obstetric units in Northern Ireland.
PATIENTS: Requests for transfer of 675 babies to the regional perinatal centre
(prenatally and postnatally) were made from hospitals in Northern Ireland between
January 1984 and December 1986. In all, 343 babies were refused admission to the 
centre, and complete data were available for 332 of them. These babies were
either admitted to other neonatal intensive care units (261 babies) or remained
in hospitals with only special care cots (71 babies).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Short term mortality.
RESULTS: Seventy of the 332 babies refused admission to the centre died compared 
with 51 of the 333 who were admitted. Multivariate analysis based on a logistic
model showed a non-significant increase in mortality among babies treated in
other intensive care units compared with babies treated in the centre (relative
odds 1.2; 95% confidence interval 0.7 to 1.9). The increase in mortality in
babies who remained in a special care baby unit, however, was significant (3.5;
1.7 to 7.0). This increase was particularly significant in babies born at less
than or equal to 32 weeks' gestation and who weighed less than 1500 g (8.4; 2.5
to 28.1).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study confirm the benefits of neonatal intensive 
care and its particular value in improving survival in babies of low birth
weight. As the babies were refused admission to the regional perinatal centre
because intensive care cots were not available this deficiency should be
corrected.

KIE: The study reported sought to compare the mortality in infants refused
admission to Northern Ireland's regional perinatal center with that in babies
accepted by the center. Admission was determined by bed availability. Over a
three-year period, 343 of 675 prenatal or postnatal transfer requests were
refused. Complete data available for 332 of the refusals showed that 261 infants 
were cared for in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) in other hospitals, and
71 infants were cared for in special care units in other hospitals. There was no 
significant increase in mortality for infants treated in other NICUs, while the
infants treated in special care units had a greater than threefold chance of
dying. Long-term outcome for both groups remains uncertain. The authors call for 
more neonatal intensive care beds and further study of the effects of delaying or
denying intensive care for at-risk infants.
PMCID: PMC1837594
PMID: 2508848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):643-6.

Influence of smoking and plasma factors on patency of femoropopliteal vein
grafts.

Wiseman S(1), Kenchington G, Dain R, Marshall CE, McCollum CN, Greenhalgh RM,
Powell JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Charing Cross Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of smoking, plasma lipids, lipoproteins,
apolipoproteins, and fibrinogen on the patency of saphenous vein femoropopliteal 
bypass grafts at one year.
DESIGN: Prospective study of patients with saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass 
grafts entered into a multicentre trial.
SETTING: Surgical wards, outpatient clinics, and home visits coordinated by two
tertiary referral centres in London and Birmingham.
PATIENTS: 157 Patients (mean age 66.6 (SD 8.2) years), 113 with patent grafts and
44 with occluded grafts one year after bypass.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cumulative percentage patency at one year.
RESULTS: Markers for smoking (blood carboxyhaemoglobin concentration (p less than
0.05) and plasma thiocyanate concentration (p less than 0.01) and plasma
concentrations of fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and apolipoproteins AI (p less
than 0.04) and (a) (p less than 0.05) were significantly higher in patients with 
occluded grafts. Serum cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher in
patients with grafts that remained patent one year after bypass (p less than
0.005). Analysis of the smoking markers indicated that a quarter of patients (40)
were untruthful in their claims to have stopped smoking. Based on smoking
markers, patency of grafts in smokers was significantly lower at one year by life
table analysis than in non-smokers (63% v 84%, p less than 0.02). Patency was
significantly higher by life table analysis in patients with a plasma fibrinogen 
concentration below the median than in those with a concentration above (90% v
57%, p less than 0.0002). Surprisingly, increased plasma low density lipoprotein 
cholesterol concentration was significantly associated with improved patency at
one year (85%) at values above the median compared with patency (only 68%) at
values in the lower half of the range (p less than 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Plasma fibrinogen concentration was the most important variable
predicting graft occlusion, followed by smoking markers. A more forceful approach
is needed to stop patients smoking; therapeutic measures to improve patency of
vein grafts should focus on decreasing plasma fibrinogen concentration rather
than serum cholesterol concentration.

PMCID: PMC1837588
PMID: 2508847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. BMJ. 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):598-600.

Non-admission or non-invitation? A case-control study of failed admissions.

Frankel S(1), Farrow A, West R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Wales College of
Medicine, Cardiff.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the causes of non-admission to hospital.
DESIGN: Validation of published rates of non-admission by examination of medical 
records, followed by a case-control study of non-attenders (cases) and attenders 
(controls).
SETTING: General hospital.
SUBJECTS: 246 Patients (cases in the case-control study) booked for admissions in
four specialties (general surgery, gynaecology, otorhinolaryngology, and trauma
and orthopaedics) during April, May, and June 1987 who were not admitted for
reasons that seemed to be attributable to the patients. Controls comprised 167
patients admitted to the same specialty on the same day.
RESULTS: The validation of administrative records indicated that it is unusual
for patients to fail to present for admission without advising the hospital
beforehand; this occurred in only 1-3% of all bookings. Information on the
circumstances of non-admission and clinical and personal details were collected
by means of a six page questionnaire completed by the patients. The case-control 
study showed that those not admitted were younger and had been on the waiting
list longer. Otherwise only small differences were found in the social and
clinical characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a common tendency to blame patients for non-admission,
factors due to patients are fairly unimportant.

PMCID: PMC1837444
PMID: 2508817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. BMJ. 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):595-8.

Electrohydraulic lithotripsy with peroral choledochoscopy.

Leung JW(1), Chung SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Prince of Wales Hospital, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shatin, NT.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of peroral electrohydraulic lithotripsy
performed with an extra large duodenoscope (outside diameter 14.8 mm) and a
choledochoscope with a diameter of 4.1 mm (Olympus "mother and baby" endoscope
system) in the removal of very large stones from the common bile duct.
DESIGN: Prospective study of patients with giant stones in the common bile duct
that were resistant to extraction by conventional means.
SETTING: Endoscopy unit at a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Four women and one man aged 48-82 (mean 66.4 years) with a total of
nine stones in their common bile ducts ranging from 2.2 to 3.6 cm in diameter.
INTERVENTIONS: Peroral electrohydraulic lithotripsy was performed after
intravenous sedation and under antibiotic cover. Two endoscopists took part in
each procedure, coordination being achieved by means of a video monitor. The
procedures were performed with a Lithotron EL-23 lithotripter and a 3 French
lithotripsy probe inserted through the choledochoscope under direct vision.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Complete clearance of the common bile duct confirmed by
occlusion cholangiography.
RESULTS: All nine stones (mean minimal diameter 2.6 cm; mean maximal diameter 3.1
cm) were successfully fragmented by electrohydraulic lithotripsy, allowing
subsequent extraction with the aid of endoscopy and clearance of the common bile 
duct. A median of three (range two to five) sessions of endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography were required to achieve complete clearance of the
ducts. Patients stayed a median of eight days in hospital after lithotripsy
(range eight to 14). There were no complications.
CONCLUSION: Peroral electrohydraulic lithotripsy offers a safe and effective
alternative for the management of patients with large stones in the common bile
duct.

PMCID: PMC1837426
PMID: 2508816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. BMJ. 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):591-5.

Motor vehicle driving among diabetics taking insulin and non-diabetics.

Stevens AB(1), Roberts M, McKane R, Atkinson AB, Bell PM, Hayes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Eastern Health and Social Services Board, Belfast.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether rates of road traffic accidents were higher in
diabetics treated with insulin than in non-diabetic subjects.
DESIGN: Controlled, five year retrospective survey.
SETTING: Diabetic, dermatology, and gastroenterology outpatient clinics.
PATIENTS: 596 Diabetics treated with insulin (354 drivers) aged 18-65 attending
two clinics and 476 non-diabetic outpatients (302 drivers).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Rates of accidents in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects.
RESULTS: A self completed questionnaire was used to record age, sex, driving
state, and rates of accidents and convictions for motoring offences among
diabetic and non-diabetic volunteers. For the diabetic volunteers further
information was obtained on treatment, experience of hypoglycaemia, and
declaration of disability to the Driving and Vehicle Licensing Centre and their
insurance company. Accident rates were similar (81 (23%) diabetic and 76 (25%)
non-diabetic drivers had had accidents in the previous five years). A total of
103 diabetic drivers had recognised hypoglycaemic symptoms while driving during
the previous year. Only 12 reported that hypoglycaemia had ever caused an
accident. Overall, 249 had declared their diabetes to an insurance company. Of
these, 107 had been required to pay an increased premium, but there was no excess
of accidents in this group.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic drivers treated with insulin and attending clinics have no 
more accidents than non-diabetic subjects and may be penalised unfairly by
insurance companies.

PMCID: PMC1837424
PMID: 2508815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. BMJ. 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):587-91.

Early influences on blood pressure: a study of children aged 5-7 years.

Whincup PH(1), Cook DG, Shaper AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and General Practice, Royal Free Hospital
School of Medicine, London.

OBJECTIVE: To examine factors that influence blood pressure in children.
DESIGN: Cross sectional study of children aged 5.0-7.0 years who had blood
pressure measurements and for whom parental questionnaires were completed.
SETTING: School based survey.
SUBJECTS: 3591 Children aged 5.0-7.5 years selected by stratified random sampling
of primary schools in nine British towns (response rate 72%); 3591 were examined 
and their parental questionnaires were completed. Data were complete for birth
rank in 3559, maternal age in 3542, maternal history of hypertension in 3524, and
paternal history in 2633.
RESULTS: Birth weight was inversely related to mean systolic blood pressure but
only when standardised for current weight (weight standardised regression
coefficient -1.83 mm Hg/kg (95% confidence interval -1.31 to -2.35). Mean
diastolic pressure was similarly related to birth weight. Maternal age, birth
rank, and a parental history of hypertension were all related to blood pressure. 
After standardisation for current weight a 10 year increase in maternal age was
associated with a 1.0 mm Hg (0.4 to 1.6) rise in systolic pressure; first born
children had systolic blood pressure on average 2.53 mm Hg (0.81 to 4.25) higher 
than those whose birth rank was greater than or equal to 4; and a maternal
history of hypertension was associated with a systolic pressure on average 0.96
mm Hg (0.41 to 1.51) higher than in those with no such history. The effects
described were largely independent of one another and of age and social class.
The relation for birth rank was, however, closely related to that for family
size.
CONCLUSIONS: Influences acting in early life may be important determinants of
blood pressure in the first decade. The relation between birth weight and blood
pressure may reflect the rate of weight gain in infancy. The reasons for the
relation with birth rank and maternal age are unknown; if confirmed they imply
that delayed motherhood and smaller family size may be associated with higher
blood pressure in offspring.

PMCID: PMC1837466
PMID: 2508814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Sep;121(3):322-6.

Impaired somatostatin response to orally administered glucose in type II diabetes
entails both somatostatin-28 and -14 and is associated with deranged metabolic
control.

Gutniak M(1), Grill V, Roovete A, Efendic S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

We have investigated the effects of hyperglycemia in Type II diabetic patients on
the somatostatin response to oral glucose. In these patients hyperglycemia
prevailed (11.8 +/- 1.4 mmol/l) and was markedly increased to a maximum of 18.9
+/- 1.0 mmol/l following the ingestion of 75 g of glucose. The rise in blood
glucose following glucose ingestion failed to induce a rise in plasma levels of
somatostatin-like immunoreactivity. Biostator-regulated insulin infusion
normalized fasting levels of blood glucose and reduced the hyperglycemia
following glucose ingestion, i.e. blood glucose now rose from 4.6 +/- 0.1 to a
maximum of 7.3 +/- 0.8 mmol/l. This moderate rise in blood glucose was
accompanied by a significant (p less than 0.05) rise in somatostatin-like
immunoreactivity. Somatostatin-28 and somatostatin-14 were separated using a
Sephadex G-50 fine column. Biostator treatment suppressed plasma levels of both
peptides during fasting conditions. Treatment was also accompanied by a rise in
both peptides during the first hour following glucose ingestion; this rise did
not occur in the untreated state.IN CONCLUSION: lack of somatostatin response to 
glucose in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is associated with deranged
metabolic control. Unresponsiveness to glucose entails the secretion of both
somatostatin-28 and -14.

PMID: 2572124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Am J Gastroenterol. 1989 Sep;84(9):1065-8.

Implications of flow cytometry in malignant conditions of the stomach.

Bronzo R(1), Heit P, Weissman G, Kahn E, McKinley M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, North Shore University Hospital, Cornell University
Medical College, Manhasset, New York.

Aneuploidy, abnormal nuclear DNA content, has been demonstrated in most malignant
processes, including gastric malignancies. Utilizing flow cytometry on endoscopic
biopsies, we have attempted to characterize the prevalence of aneuploidy and to
investigate the prognostic implications of gastric biopsy DNA content with regard
to survival. DNA aneuploidy was detected in 71% of specimens revealing malignancy
by histologic evaluation. When aneuploidy was demonstrated, 63% of the specimens 
proved to be positive for malignancy (positive predictive value). However, the
absence of aneuploidy had a negative predictive value for malignancy of 93%.
Patients with diploid adenocarcinomas had a median survival of 32 months,
compared to a median survival of 4 months in the group with DNA
aneuploidy.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The prevalence of aneuploidy in endoscopically
obtained specimens compares favorably with other previously reported series. 2)
The presence of aneuploidy in gastric malignancies appears to correlate with
decreased survival and may be helpful in making therapeutic decisions.

PMID: 2773900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):295-300.

Intra-articular orgotein in osteoarthritis of the knee: a placebo-controlled
efficacy, safety, and dosage comparison.

McIlwain H(1), Silverfield JC, Cheatum DE, Poiley J, Taborn J, Ignaczak T, Multz 
CV.

Author information: 
(1)DDI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Mountain View, California 94043.

PURPOSE: Superoxide dismutase (orgotein for injection) has been used in managing 
osteoarthritis for more than seven years in Europe; however, well-controlled
studies to establish an optimum dosage regimen have not been conducted. In this
study, three orgotein dose/regimens were compared with placebo in terms of
efficacy, safety, and duration of effect in patients with active osteoarthritis
of the knee.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 139 patients with osteoarthritis of the knee
were enrolled in the study. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents were withdrawn 
to induce a flare of disease activity. Patients were then randomly assigned to
receive one intra-articular injection of either placebo or orgotein (8 mg to 32
mg) each week for three weeks. Both investigators and patients evaluated disease 
activity and adverse experiences at a series of follow-up visits for three
months.
RESULTS: Orgotein was effective in reducing symptoms of osteoarthritis for up to 
three months after treatment; 16 mg given twice was the most effective and most
best-tolerated regimen. Discomfort at the injection site was drug related,
although this effect also occurred occasionally after injection of placebo.
CONCLUSION: The long-lasting effects of intra-articular superoxide dismutase
contribute to a favorable risk-benefit ratio and support the importance of the
free-radical anion, superoxide (O2-), in the biochemical pathology of
osteoarthritis.

PMID: 2773967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):278-84.

Cimetidine and adverse reactions: a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials
of short-term therapy.

Richter JM(1), Colditz GA, Huse DM, Delea TE, Oster G.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Service (Gastrointestinal and General Internal Medicine Units),
Massachusetts General Hospital, Brookline.

PURPOSE: We pooled data from randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials 
to determine the frequency of adverse reactions among patients treated with
cimetidine for acute acid-peptic disorders.
METHODS: Meta-analysis was used to analyze data obtained from a search of English
language reports of trials of cimetidine in the ambulatory treatment of acute
acid-peptic disorders that were published between January 1982 and April 1987.
RESULTS: Of 161 trials of cimetidine that we identified, 84 provided complete
reporting of data on adverse reactions and, of these, 24 employed a randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Across these 24 trials, the overall rate
of reported adverse reactions among 622 patients randomly assigned to receive
cimetidine was 10.9%; the corresponding rate among 516 patients randomly assigned
to receive placebo was 10.1%. This difference was not statistically significant
(p greater than 0.10), nor were any significant differences noted in the
frequencies of reported central nervous system or gastrointestinal adverse
reactions (p greater than 0.10). Rates of adverse reactions also did not differ
by dosage or trial duration. The overall rate of adverse reactions reported in
the 60 trials that did not utilize a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
design was similar to the rate reported in those that did.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the frequency of adverse reactions among
patients receiving cimetidine for acute acid-peptic disorders is not
significantly different from that of patients receiving placebo.

PMID: 2773966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):269-72.

Prevalence of acanthosis nigricans in an unselected population.

Stuart CA(1), Pate CJ, Peters EJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston 77550.

PURPOSE: The intent of this study was to determine, in an unselected population, 
the prevalence of the hyperinsulinemia-associated skin lesion, acanthosis
nigricans.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The posterior neck of every child in the sixth and eighth
grades of the public schools of Galveston, Texas, was personally examined by the 
investigators during a state-mandated school health survey. A total of 1,412
children were examined.
RESULTS: The data for each child examined included the absence or presence of
acanthosis nigricans, height, weight, age, sex, and ethnic background. A subset
of the children with the skin lesion also had fasting plasma insulin levels
measured. Acanthosis nigricans was present in 7.1% of the 1,412 children
examined. The skin lesion was equally distributed between boys and girls and was 
most common among children with severe obesity. The condition was present in two 
of 440 white non-Hispanics, 19 of 343 Hispanics, and 80 of 601 blacks examined.
The fasting plasma insulin concentrations measured in some of these children and 
in previously evaluated subjects strongly correlate with the presence and
severity of the acanthosis nigricans skin lesion.
CONCLUSIONS: This skin lesion is much more common than previously believed and
has a dramatic ethnic predisposition. We conclude that the high prevalence of
this skin lesion further suggests that insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia,
with all of their serious medical implications, are also highly prevalent.

PMID: 2773965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):260-3.

Nephrotoxicity and hyperkalemia in patients with acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome treated with pentamidine.

Lachaal M(1), Venuto RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York, Buffalo.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 May;88(5):552.

INTRODUCTION: Recently, the use of pentamidine has risen because of its efficacy 
in managing patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and
Pneumocystis carinii infection. We undertook a retrospective analysis of the
charts of 22 patients with AIDS given pentamidine when they were hospitalized
over a two-year period.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Collectively, these 22 patients were admitted 28 times
during this period and received a total of 23 courses of pentamidine. During five
of these admissions, pentamidine was not given. The duration of therapy ranged
from five to 33 days (mean: 13.4 days). Three admissions were excluded because of
insufficient laboratory data or concomitant use of therapies that could affect
the parameters being studied.
RESULTS: In 19 of the remaining 20 admissions, the patients treated with
pentamidine were observed to have elevations of potassium (5.1 to 8.7 mEq/L),
creatinine (1.5 to 11.8 mg/dL), and blood urea nitrogen (27 to 183 mg/dL), and a 
decrease in serum bicarbonate (14 to 21 mEq/L). Of the 19 patients exhibiting
these abnormalities, most required sodium polystyrene sulfonate and two required 
dialysis. During the admissions when pentamidine was not given, hyperkalemia was 
not observed. After discontinuation of pentamidine therapy, these metabolic
derangements normalized in all patients except for one who died while still in
acute renal failure. Four patients received more than one course of therapy and
upon reinstitution of pentamidine treatment, the same metabolic abnormalities
recurred.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, pentamidine is more nephrotoxic in patients with AIDS 
than previously reported in other subjects and can cause life-threatening
hyperkalemia.

PMID: 2773964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):253-9.

Antimicrobial misuse in patients with positive blood cultures.

Dunagan WC(1), Woodward RS, Medoff G, Gray JL 3rd, Casabar E, Smith MD, Lawrenz
CA, Spitznagel E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri 63110.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Feb;88(2):202.

PURPOSE: Inappropriate antimicrobial use was examined among a randomly and
prospectively selected cohort of patients with at least one positive result of
blood cultures. This misuse was then analyzed with respect to hospital charges
and length of stay (LOS).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 70 patients (average age, 58.5
years) who had not undergone bone marrow transplantation. Patient charts were
reviewed daily for the following information: clinical signs and symptoms of
infection, pertinent laboratory data, culture results, detailed data on each
antimicrobial in every antimicrobial regimen and their appropriateness, hospital 
charges, LOS, diagnostic and procedure codes, and discharge status. Three
severity of illness variables were generated. Inappropriate antimicrobial use was
described according to one of 12 categories.
RESULTS: The percent of antimicrobial misuse, defined as the proportion of days
of administration of antimicrobials on which one or more antimicrobials were
judged inappropriate, was found to be 22.3%. After adjustment for severity of
illness and diagnosis, this average inappropriateness correlated with 4.2
additional hospitalization days and $5,368 additional hospital charges.
CONCLUSION: Our results cannot distinguish among several possible reasons for
these associations, including direct causality (e.g., toxicity and prolonged
hospitalization for antimicrobial use) and indirect links such as inappropriate
utilization of other resources and influences of severity of illness on
antimicrobial use not accounted for in our equations. Nevertheless, the magnitude
of the association gives import to the desirability of further studies.

PMID: 2773963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):306-15.

Calcium antagonists and acute renal failure.

Russell JD(1), Churchill DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Apr;88(4):445.

PURPOSE: To critically review the question of whether calcium antagonists can
prevent or attenuate post-ischemic acute renal failure (ARF).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using a computer-assisted search, we identified all
experimental and clinical studies published in English between 1980 and 1988 in
which the main research question addressed the efficacy of verapamil, diltiazem, 
or nifedipine in the treatment of post-ischemic ARF. Studies were then selected
for review based on clearly specified inclusion criteria and evaluated against
accepted methodologic guidelines.
RESULTS: In experimental studies of warm renal ischemia, calcium antagonists
provided significant protection of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) when given
before and after ischemic injury; however, isolated pre- or post-ischemic
treatment produced equivocal results. In autotransplantation studies on
protracted cold ischemia, verapamil produced a modest, although physiologically
significant, increase in GFR during warm reperfusion but failed to alter graft
survival. Studies of calcium antagonists in humans with ARF have been confined to
patients undergoing renal transplantation. Diltiazem given both to donor grafts
and to recipients produced a significant reduction in the rate of delayed graft
function but failed to improve one-year graft survival. This result may be due to
the study of small numbers of low-risk patients. At present, there is no
conclusive evidence that one calcium antagonist is more efficacious than another 
in the treatment of post-ischemic ARF.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcium antagonists appear to prevent or reduce the severity of
post-ischemic ARF only when given prior to and after the ischemic insult. As a
result, these agents will have most utility in the setting of renal
transplantation. Although the efficacy of these agents in reducing delayed graft 
function appears to be established, their failure to improve graft survival is
poorly understood and requires further investigation.

PMID: 2672810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):289-94.

Gout in the heart transplant recipient: physiologic puzzle and therapeutic
challenge.

Kahl LE(1), Thompson ME, Griffith BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 May;88(5):553.

PURPOSE: Hyperuricemia and gouty arthritis have been associated with cyclosporine
use in renal transplant recipients. Patients requiring heart or heart-lung
transplantation may have additional risk factors for the development of gout, yet
it has not previously been described in this population. We share herein our
clinical experience with gouty arthritis in six heart transplant recipients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a one-year period, six hospitalized male heart
transplant patients were seen in consultation for gouty arthritis. Five were
subsequently followed for gout as outpatients; the sixth died within six months. 
Management included trials of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),
colchicine, allopurinol, and intra-articular steroid injections, as well as
attempts to minimize cyclosporine nephrotoxicity.
RESULTS: Three patients had gout in remission at time of transplant surgery, and 
three others developed gout for the first time two to 45 months after
transplantation. Following transplant surgery, both pre-existing and new-onset
gout appeared to exhibit an accelerated course, with unusually rapid development 
of chronic polyarticular disease and tophi in four of the five patients followed 
for more than six months. Peak serum uric acid levels ranged from 11.0 mg/dL to
16.5 mg/dL. NSAIDs produced reversible renal insufficiency in four patients.
Gout-related infections occurred in three patients, one of whom died.
CONCLUSION: Acute gouty arthritis may occur in the heart transplant recipient
despite concomitant use of immunosuppressive drugs. Cyclosporine, with its
attendant hypertension and nephrotoxicity, appears to be the major risk factor
for hyperuricemia in this setting, leading to the accelerated development of
tophi and chronic polyarthritis. Management is complicated by the patients' renal
insufficiency and propensity to infection, as well as by interaction with
transplant-related medications. Prevention of hyperuricemia by minimizing
cyclosporine nephrotoxicity appears to be the best management strategy, with
judicious use of allopurinol for those patients in whom this preventive approach 
fails.

PMID: 2672809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):285-8.

Salvage therapy for relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma utilizing
autologous bone marrow transplantation.

Vose JM(1), Armitage JO, Bierman PJ, Weisenburger DD, Hutchins M, Dowling MD,
Moravec DF, Sorensen S, Okerbloom J, Bascom G, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha
68105-1065.

PURPOSE: Our objective was to evaluate the impact of high-dose therapy and
autologous bone marrow transplantation as salvage treatment for recurrent
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in a defined group of patients from the Nebraska Lymphoma 
Study Group.
DESIGN: Patients treated initially by oncologists from the Nebraska Lymphoma
Study Group between January 1983 and July 1987 who subsequently underwent
autologous bone marrow transplantation for recurrent or refractory disease were
evaluated for treatment outcome.
PATIENTS: Twenty-five patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
underwent high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell infusion in the time period 
reviewed. An initial doxorubicin (Adriamycin)-containing chemotherapy regimen had
failed in all patients. The most favorable subgroup included 17 patients who were
less then 60 years of age and had received no chemotherapy beyond their initial
doxorubicin-containing regimen when referred for bone marrow transplantation.
RESULTS: The complete response rate to the high-dose therapy was 52%, with an
actuarial five-year disease-free survival of all patients treated of 40%. The
overall survival at five years was 46%.
CONCLUSIONS: High-dose chemo-radiotherapy, followed by infusion of autologous
hematopoietic stem cells, can effectively function as salvage therapy in a
significant number of patients in whom primary chemotherapy regimens for
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma fail. This treatment approach appears to offer superior
results when compared with the reported outcome for patients treated with salvage
chemotherapy administered at conventional doses.

PMID: 2672808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):264-8.

International study of ketanserin in Raynaud's phenomenon.

Coffman JD(1), Clement DL, Creager MA, Dormandy JA, Janssens MM, McKendry RJ,
Murray GD, Nielsen SL.

Author information: 
(1)Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02118.

PURPOSE: The effects of ketanserin on primary or secondary Raynaud's phenomenon
due to connective tissue disease were studied in a large, international group of 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 222 patients from 10
countries. After a run-in period of one month of placebo therapy, patients were
randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to receive ketanserin 40 mg three
times daily (n = 113) or placebo (n = 109) for three months. Total finger blood
flow was measured in 41 patients in a warm and cool room before and during
treatment. Vasospastic episodes were assessed by diaries and global evaluations.
RESULTS: A significant reduction of 34% in frequency of episodes occurred with
ketanserin, compared to 18% with placebo (p = 0.011). There was a 1% reduction in
duration of episodes with ketanserin therapy, compared to a 2% increase with
placebo therapy, but this finding was not statistically significant (p = 0.29).
No difference was observed in severity of attacks. Global evaluations by
investigators (p = 0.03) and patients (p less than 0.01) showed an overall
benefit with ketanserin compared to that seen with placebo. Patients with primary
or secondary Raynaud's phenomenon responded similarly to treatment. No changes in
total finger blood flow were found.
CONCLUSION: Ketanserin significantly improves the subjective symptoms of patients
with primary or secondary Raynaud's phenomenon and is an appropriate agent to use
in this disease when conservative measures fail.

PMID: 2672807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3):273-7.

Recombinant interferon-gamma in the treatment of systemic sclerosis.

Kahan A(1), Amor B, Menkes CJ, Strauch G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, René Descartes University, School of Medicine, Paris,
France.

PURPOSE: Recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is a potent and selective
inhibitor of collagen production by dermal fibroblasts in vitro and has numerous 
immunoregulatory activities. We assessed the effects of recombinant IFN-gamma in 
the treatment of patients with systemic sclerosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten patients entered the study and nine completed the
six-month study period. Recombinant IFN-gamma was administered once daily for
seven days per week by intramuscular injections: 10 micrograms/day for 10 days,
25 micrograms/day for 10 days, 50 micrograms/day for 10 days, and 100
micrograms/day for the next five months.
RESULTS: After the six-month treatment period, a significant improvement, as
compared with base-line values, was observed in total skin score, maximal oral
opening, range of motion of wrists and elbows, grip strength, functional index,
dysphagia, and creatinine clearance. No serious side effects were observed;
however, a significant decrease in white blood cell counts and in peripheral
blood lymphocytes was noted.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that recombinant IFN-gamma may be beneficial in
the treatment of patients with systemic sclerosis.

PMID: 2505614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Am J Med. 1989 Sep;87(3N):9N-15N.

Abnormalities of von Willebrand factor multimers in thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome.

Moake JL(1), McPherson PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

PURPOSE: To analyze and review von Willebrand factor (vWF) multimeric patterns in
patients with single-episode thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP),
intermittent TTP (episodes at infrequent, irregular intervals), chronic relapsing
TTP (episodes at frequent, regular intervals), and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome 
(HUS).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Platelet-poor plasma samples were obtained in EDTA,
citrate, or citrate-hirudin-aprotinin-leupeptin from 36 patients with
single-episode TTP, eight patients with intermittent TTP, four patients with
chronic relapsing TTP, and 26 patients with HUS. The samples were separated by
sodium dodecyl sulfate-agarose gel electrophoresis, overlaid with rabbit
125I-anti-human vWF IgG, and analyzed by autoradiography.
RESULTS: Abnormalities of vWF multimers were found in platelet-poor plasma
samples from 31 of 36 found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36
patients (86%) at the onset of and during their single TTP episode. vWF multimers
larger than those in normal plasma, and similar to vWF forms observed within
normal human endothelial cells (unusually large vWF multimers), were demonstrated
in 31% of the patients; 19% had either unusually large vWF multimers or a
relative decrease in the largest plasma vWF forms in different serial samples;
36% had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vWF forms. These results imply 
that endothelial cell injury or intense stimulation, along with the attachment of
unusually large vWF multimers and the largest plasma vWF forms to platelets,
occurred during the single TTP episodes in most patients. Patterns of vWF
multimers were normal in 92% of patients with single-episode TTP studied after
recovery. All eight patients with intermittent TTP and the four patients with
chronic relapsing TTP had unusually large vWF multimers in their plasma between
episodes, and these multimers decreased or disappeared during relapses. Of 26
children and adults with HUS, 14 had a relative decrease in the largest plasma
vWF multimeric forms and one had unusually large vWF multimers during the episode
(vWF multimeric abnormalities in 58% of the patients).
CONCLUSION: It is probable that vWF was involved in the pathophysiology of TTP in
most of these patients with the single-episode, intermittent, or chronic
relapsing types of TTP, and in more than 50% of the patients with HUS.

PMID: 2486537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Anaesthesist. 1989 Sep;38(9):490-7.

[Air embolism in the sitting position. Oxygen/nitrogen versus oxygen/laughing
gas].

[Article in German]

Knüttgen D(1), Stölzle U, Köning W, Müller MR, Doehn M.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Anaesthesiologie der Städtischen Krankenanstalten Köln-Merheim.

Venous air embolism (VAE) is a well-known complication of neurosurgical
procedures performed in the sitting position. Nitrous oxide (N2O) intensifies the
hemodynamic alterations conditioned by VAE. Therefore the administration of N2O
must be discontinued immediately if VAE occurs. Nevertheless, it is still not
clear whether N2O should be avoided in such operations as a general policy. The
aim of the present study was to investigate the incidence and severity of VAE
with O2/N2 as opposed to O2/N2O anesthesia. METHODS. In all, 42 patients (19 men,
23 women) aged 23-80 years were investigated in a randomized order. In all cases 
an intracranial operation was carried out with the patient in the sitting
position. The anesthesiologic management was uniform: modified neuroleptanalgesia
(fentanyl, flunitrazepam, droperidol), relaxation with pancuronium, endotracheal 
intubation, moderate hyperventilation (PaCO2 30-35 mmHg) without PEEP. Half (21) 
of the patients (group 1) were ventilated with O2/N2 (1:1) and the remaining
patients (group 2) with O2/N2O (1:1). Heart rate (HR) arterial blood pressure
(AP), central venous pressure (CVP), end-tidal CO2 tension (PE'CO2), and body
temperature were monitored continuously. Arterial blood gases were checked once
per hour at least. VAE was signaled by changes in the ultrasonic Doppler sounds
or a rapid decrease in the end-tidal CO2 tension. The diagnosis of VAE was
confirmed by aspirating air bubbles through the right atrial catheter. A
vacuum-driven device was used to suction off the embolized air and measure the
aspirated air volume. Pulmonary gas exchange was defined by the arterial to
end-tidal CO2 difference (PaCO2 - PE'CO2) and by the alveolar arterial O2
quotient (PAO2 - PaO2/PAO2). If a VAE was recognized N2O administration was
stopped immediately and ventilation was continued with pure oxygen.
Postoperatively all patients were ventilated.RESULTS: The incidence of VAE was
similar in both groups: VAE occurred in five patients in group 1 and in six
patients in group 2. In isolated cases distinct increases in the CO2 difference
(PaCO2 - PE'CO2) or the O2 quotient (PAO2 - PaO2/PAO2) resulted, with no
significant difference between the groups. In patients with VAE the aspirated gas
volume (median 6.0 ml in group 1, 75.5 ml in group 2; P less than 0.01) and the
duration of aspiration (median 5.0 min in group 1, 22.5 min in group 2; P less
than 0.05) were significantly different in the two groups. HR was significantly
lower in group 2 1 and 4 h after the beginning and at the end of the operation.
MAP was significantly lower in group 2 3 and 4 h after the beginning and at the
end of the operation. CVP was significantly higher in group 2 3 h after the start
of the operation. The total dose of fentanyl, flunitrazepam and droperidol
administered was higher in group 1 than in group 2 (P less than 0.05). The
duration of postoperative ventilation was similar in both groups.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2686489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Anaesthesist. 1989 Sep;38(9):466-75.

[The effect of nifedipine and fentanyl on changes in the circulatory reaction to 
endotracheal intubation].

[Article in German]

Heinrichs W(1), Fauth U, Tzanova I, Karim S, Halmágyi M.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

Recommendations for prevention of hypertension and tachycardia during the
induction of anesthesia include the use of fentanyl and antihypertensive drugs
and superficial anesthesia of the throat. Nifedipine has been used to treat acute
hypertension and in many cases it has proved superior to other antihypertensive
drugs. The present study was designed to find whether prophylactic injection of
nifedipine alone or in combination with fentanyl can prevent cardiovascular
responses during endotracheal intubation.METHODS: A total of 140 female patients 
(ASA groups I or II) with no history of arterial hypertension were randomly
allocated to 7 groups: group K was the control group, in which patients received 
only saline solution; patients in groups 0,1F; 0,2F; 0,3F received 0.1, 0.2 or
0.3 mg fentanyl, respectively; those in group 1,0N, 1 mg nifedipine; those in
group 0,5N + 0,1F, 0.5 mg nifedipine, plus 0.1 mg fentanyl; and those in group
1,0N + 0,1F 1 mg nifedipine plus 0.1 mg fentanyl. Blood pressure and heart rate
were measured at 1 min intervals. After estimation of control values the
prophylactic drug or combination of drugs was injected. Anesthesia was induced in
the conventional manner. Plasma concentrations of epinephrine and norepinephrine 
were analyzed before intubation and at 5, 30 and 60 min intervals after
intubation. Side-effects, especially respiratory depression and arrhythmia, were 
carefully recorded.
RESULTS: In group K only systolic BP increased significantly after intubation. In
the other groups the peak systolic blood pressure was not statistically different
from the preinjection values. Diastolic BP increased significantly after
intubation in all but two groups: in group 0,3F and in group 1,0N + 0,1F there
was no significant difference in diastolic BP compared with the control values.
The heart rate increased significantly in the control group after intubation as
well as in groups 0,1F and 0,2F. In patients receiving 0.3 mg fentanyl there was 
no change in HR after intubation. Administration of 1 mg nifedipine alone (group 
1,0N) or in combination with 0.1 mg fentanyl (group 1,0N + 0,1F) caused
tachycardia even before intubation, whereas the combination of 0.5 mg nifedipine 
and 0.1 mg fentanyl did not result in a significant increase of HR following
intubation. In all groups, epinephrine concentrations were significantly lower 5 
min after intubation. A return to the control values was observed after 60 min in
all groups except group 0,1F. Serum concentrations of norepinephrine were lower 5
min after intubation in all groups and were still low in groups 0,1F , 0,2F,
0,5N+0,1F and 1,0N+0,1F up to 60 min after intubation. Side-effects and adverse
effects were checked for in the present study. An increase in heart rate was
observed during induction in almost every group. More pronounced changes were
recorded in groups 1,0N and 1,0N+ 0,1F receiving 1 mg nifedipine.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2686488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):384-8.

Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis: response to alkylating agents in six
patients.

Ginsburg WW(1), O'Duffy JD, Morris JL, Huston KA.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of alkylating agents in multicentric
reticulohistiocytosis.
DESIGN: Open consecutive case series.
SETTING: Tertiary-care referral clinic.
PATIENTS: Six patients with skin-biopsy-proven multicentric
reticulohistiocytosis. All had skin nodules and polyarthritis.
INTERVENTION: Five patients received cyclophosphamide (dose range, 1.25 to 2.2
mg/kg body weight) and one patient received chlorambucil (0.1 mg/kg). Therapy was
administered from 6 to 24 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In five patients treated with cyclophosphamide a
response was seen within 4 months. Four patients eventually had a complete
remission and one had almost a complete remission. The four patients in complete 
remission had cyclophosphamide therapy discontinued after 6, 12, 16, and 18
months. Three of the four patients remained in complete remission off therapy at 
6, 6, and 22 months, whereas one had a recurrence after 6 months. The one patient
given chlorambucil went into a complete remission and stopped treatment after 12 
months. He remained in complete remission 32 months after stopping medication.
CONCLUSION: Our experience with patients with aggressive multicentric
reticulohistiocytosis shows that alkylation therapy is warranted. We conclude
that a response to an alkylating agent may be expected. Whether after treatment
for 6 to 18 months most patients may be able to discontinue the drug and remain
in remission has yet to be shown. The rarity of multicentric
reticulohistiocytosis precludes the possibility of a double-blind study.

PMID: 2764405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):362-7.

Hypoxemia during air travel in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.

Dillard TA(1), Berg BW, Rajagopal KR, Dooley JW, Mehm WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 1;112(7):547-8.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 15;112(2):147-8.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To quantitate and identify determinants of the severity of
hypoxemia during air travel in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.
DESIGN: Prospective study of physiologic variables before and during
intervention.
SETTING: Referral-based pulmonary disease clinic at a U.S. Army medical center.
PATIENTS: Eighteen ambulatory retired servicemen (age 68 +/- 6 [SD] years) with
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (forced expiratory volume in the
first second [FEV1] 31% +/- 10% of predicted).
INTERVENTION: Altitude simulation equivalent to 2438 meters (8000 feet) above sea
level in a hypobaric chamber.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Radial artery catheter blood oxygen tension in the
patients declined from a ground value (PaO2G) at sea level of 72.4 +/- 9 mm Hg to
an altitude value (PaO2Alt) of 47.4 +/- 6 mm Hg after 45 minutes of steady state 
hypobaric exposure. The PaO2G correlated with PaO2Alt (r = 0.587; P less than
0.01). Multiple regression analysis revealed that the preflight FEV1 reduced the 
variability in PaO2Alt not explained by PaO2G in the equation: PaO2Alt = 0.453
[PaO2G] + 0.386 [FEV1% predicted] + 2.440 (r = 0.847; P less than 0.001).
Residuals from two previously published formulas using PaO2G also correlated with
FEV1 (r greater than or equal to 0.765; P less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial blood oxygen tension declined to clinically significant
levels in most patients during hypobaric exposure. When combined with the
preflight arterial PO2 at ground level (PaO2G), the measurement of the preflight 
FEV1 improved prediction of PaO2 at altitude (PaO2Alt) in patients with severe
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

PMID: 2764404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):355-61.

Baseline measurement of bone mass predicts fracture in white women.

Hui SL(1), Slemenda CW, Johnston CC Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if a single bone mass measurement of the radius is 
predictive of future fractures at any site.
DESIGN: Observational study of a cohort of free-living subjects and a cohort of
retirement-home residents with an average follow-up of 6.7 years and 5.5 years,
respectively (range, 1 to 15 years for both cohorts).
SETTING: General community and a retirement home.
SUBJECTS: Volunteer sample of white women (386 free-living and 135 living in a
retirement home) who were free of disease and were not receiving medication known
to affect bone metabolism. In terms of physical condition subjects ranged from
the totally independent to the wheelchair-bound.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A radial bone mass measurement was done at the
initial visit. Subsequent non-spine fractures were reported by the subjects at
follow-up visits, which were less than a year apart in most cases, and verified
with medical records. Cox regression was used to model time to first fracture as 
a function of age and bone mass. These analyses showed that for every 0.1 g/cm
decrement in bone mass, the relative risk of fracture was 2.2 (CI, 1.7 to 2.8)
for the free-living and 1.5 (CI, 1.2 to 1.9) for the retirement-home residents.
Baseline age did not predict the risk of fracture in either cohort, and
controlling for baseline age did not reduce the relative-risk estimates of bone
mass. Similar analyses also showed that bone mass was a statistically significant
predictor for first hip fractures (n = 30) among the nursing-home residents
(relative risk, 1.9; CI, 1.4 to 2.7) and first forearm fractures (n = 10) among
the free living (relative risk, 3.6; CI, 1.9 to 6.8). For both cohorts, the
8-year probability of any nonspine fracture was about 80% for subjects with
initial bone mass less than 0.6 g/cm and was less than 10% for subjects with
initial bone mass greater than 0.8 g/cm. Similarly, those in the retirement home 
with bone mass below 0.6 g/cm had a 6-year probability of hip fracture of 43%,
compared with a 17% risk for those with greater bone mass.
CONCLUSION: A single bone mass measurement of the radius is predictive of future 
nonspine fractures at all sites, and at both the forearm and the hip. Baseline
age was not a significant predictor of fracture within either cohort.
Relative-risk estimates were not dissimilar across fracture sites.

PMID: 2764403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):411-32.

Surviving adult cancers. Part 1: Physiologic effects.

Loescher LJ(1), Welch-McCaffrey D, Leigh SA, Hoffman B, Meyskens FL Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, Tucson.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1990 Apr 15;112(8):634.

PURPOSE: To provide an overview of the physiologic long-term and late effects of 
adult cancers and cancer treatments by a review of the medical and nursing
literature.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Primarily from an English-language literature search using
MEDLINE (1980 to 1988) and Index Medicus (1980 to 1988).
STUDY SELECTION: After a consensus review by four observers, 285 articles were
selected that addressed the stated purpose.
DATA EXTRACTION: Four observers assessed the literature using predetermined
criteria for eliciting information about long-term and late effects. RESULTS AND 
DATA SYNTHESIS: Much has been written about the acute phases of cancer and cancer
treatments. In comparison, relatively few data are available that define
physiologic long-term: and late effects of cancer treatments in adult survivors. 
Review of the existing data showed that these sequelae may affect virtually any
body system months or years after treatment ends. In addition, few prospective
studies dealing with physiologic survivorship issues have been done.
CONCLUSIONS: Health care providers need to be aware of long-term or late
complications that may affect the increasing number of adult cancer survivors.
Attention to treatment regimens in the acute cancer phase and careful follow-up
once the disease is eradicated may help to prevent or manage these complications.
More prospective research should be done in this area.

PMID: 2669594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Br J Clin Pract. 1989 Sep;43(9):317-21.

A double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study of mebeverine and mefenamic
acid in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhoea.

Langrick AF, Gunn AD, Livesey H, Whitehead AM.

OBJECTIVE: i) To compare the efficacy of mebeverine, mefenamic acid and placebo
in relieving the symptoms of primary dysmenorrhoea. ii) To compare the incidence 
of concurrent effects during treatment with mebeverine, mefenamic acid and
placebo.
DESIGN: Double-blind, prospectively randomised, three-way crossover study of
mebeverine, mefenamic acid and placebo during three consecutive menstrual cycles.
SETTING: University health centres in the UK.
PATIENTS: Sixty-four females suffering from primary dysmenorrhoea who experienced
pain during every menstrual cycle.
INTERVENTION: Dosage was two capsules, three times daily, of mebeverine,
mefenamic acid or placebo. Each mebeverine capsule contained 135 mg mebeverine
hydrochloride, and each mefenamic acid capsule contained 250 mg mefenamic acid.
Paracetamol (up to 2 x 500 mg) was permitted, if required, as rescue analgesia.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Details of pain severity, nausea, abdominal bloating
and disruption to daily activities were recorded by means of clinician
assessments and patient diaries. Patients indicated their treatment preference
after three cycles. Mebeverine and mefenamic acid were superior to placebo in
reducing pain severity (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.02 respectively), and 
mefenamic acid reduced the level of disruption to normal activities (p less than 
0.01). The number of concurrent effects reported was five during treatment with
mefenamic acid and one each during treatment with placebo and mebeverine.
CONCLUSIONS: Mebeverine and mefenamic acid are effective in relieving symptoms of
dysmenorrhoea.

PMID: 2620043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Chest. 1989 Sep;96(3):631-5.

Safe intrahospital transport of critically ill ventilator-dependent patients.

Weg JG(1), Haas CF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Michigan Medical 
Center, Ann Arbor.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether manual ventilation during intrahospital
transport of mechanically ventilated critically ill patients results in blood gas
and/or hemodynamic abnormalities.
DESIGN: A single-blind prospective study evaluated arterial blood gas, blood
pressure, heart rate, and arrhythmia changes during mechanical ventilation and
manual transport ventilation.
SETTING: University hospital ICUs and various diagnostic or treatment areas.
PATIENTS: Twenty mechanically ventilated critically ill patients during
intrahospital transport.
INTERVENTION: Each patient received mechanical ventilation (MECH) with a volume
ventilator while in the ICU and at the study/treatment area. They were manually
ventilated (MAN) by a respiratory therapist during transport between areas.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The MECH settings were: VT = 0.75 +/- 0.17 L; f = 
16 +/- 4; VE = 12.6 +/- 4.3 L/min; FIO2 = 0.46 +/- 0.2. Mean peak Paw = 31 +/- 12
cm H2O and mean effective Cst = 44 +/- 15 ml/cm H2O. No hemodynamic abnormalities
were observed. Arterial blood gas values did not vary to any clinically
significant degree, except in two patients: one patient had a reduced PaO2 and
increased PaCO2 associated with an accidental O2 disconnection and clamped chest 
tube; another patient had an increased pH by 0.13 units with only a 9 mm Hg fall 
in PaCO2.
CONCLUSIONS: Manual ventilation during intrahospital transport of critically ill 
mechanically ventilated patients is safe provided the person performing manual
ventilation knows the inspired oxygen fraction and minute ventilation required
before transport and is trained to approximate them during transport.

PMID: 2766824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Haematologica. 1989 Sep-Oct;74(5):503-5.

Pulmonary and myocardial infarction secondary to arterial occlusion by
Aspergillus fumigatus in ANLL.

Landonio G, Nosari A, Gargantini L, De Cataldo F, Oreste P.

Secondary invasive Aspergillosis is a well-recognized complication of the
immunocompromised patient. This case concerned a 52-y.o. male patient affected by
ANLL (FAB: M2). On day 10 after induction therapy the patient, previously
apyretic and asymptomatic, had an episode of acute dyspnea with fever (39 degrees
C). Chest X-ray and pulmonary scintigram were compatible with a diagnosis of
pulmonary embolism, and the patient was started on heparin. On day 24 the patient
had persistent anginal pain with an ECG compatible with myocardial infarction.
The patient was transferred to the coronary unit and died on day 35 after a
downhill course. Autopsy findings. Gross examination: multiple infarction
involving the whole left lung, the septal and anterior myocardial walls, the left
kidney and the spleen.HISTOLOGY: arterial occlusion due only to intravascular
hypha growth (Aspergillus fumigatus). This case emphasizes how much astrary the
clinical picture can be and how far the fungal dissemination can extend.

PMID: 2511122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. J Cardiol. 1989 Sep;19(3):851-8.

[Doppler echocardiographic estimates of pressure gradients in various types of
stenoses: usefulness and limitations].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakajima T(1), Arakaki Y, Kamiya T, Ogawa M, Sano T, Yabuuchi H, Sato I, Yamada
O, Miyatake K, Tomita H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Osaka University Hospital.

In the present study, the accuracy of Doppler estimates of pressure gradients in 
various types of stenoses was clinically and experimentally evaluated.
Fifty-seven patients, including 23 with ventricular septal defect, 15 with aortic
or pulmonary valvular stenosis, four with infundibular stenosis, and five with
supravalvular aortic or pulmonary stenosis were observed. The peak systolic
pressure gradient (dP (C] was obtained at the time of catheterization in all
patients. Before catheterization, the maximum velocity was measured by pulsed or 
continuous Doppler echocardiography and the estimated systolic pressure gradient 
according to Doppler (dP (D] was calculated by the simplified Bernoulli equation.
The experimental model was designed to create pulsatile flow through a stenosis
model. Nine different stenotic model types were used, including three
orifice-like stenoses and six truncated cones with heights of 10 mm and 20 mm
distal to the stenosis. The orifices in their stenoses were 3, 4 and 5 mm,
respectively. Glycerin solution containing Sephadex with a viscosity similar to
that of blood was used as the circulation medium. Its specific gravity was 1.16
g/cm3. In each stenotic model, the maximum velocity and instantaneous systolic
peak pressure gradient were measured at various water flow rates.CLINICAL
RESULTS: In patients with ventricular septal defect or valvular stenosis, dP (D) 
correlated very well to dP (C), with the regression equation, y = 0.87x + 2.79 (r
= 0.92) or y = 0.96x + 1.02 (r = 0.99). In the other patients except for three
with patent ductus arteriosus, dP (D) overestimated dP (C) by 11 to 71 mmHg, and 
their post-stenotic areas had gradually widened according to angiographic
findings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2641778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):293-300.

Symptoms of stress predict musculoskeletal disorders.

Leino P.

Author information: 
Institute of Public Health, University of Tampere, Finland.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Dec;43(4):395.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there is a relationship between
musculoskeletal disorders and presumed symptoms of stress.
DESIGN: Cross sectional and mixed longitudinal cohort study. Longitudinal data
were collected at baseline (1973) and at re-examinations in 1978 and 1983.
SETTING: Community based.
PARTICIPANTS: Study sample was drawn from employees who had worked for at least
15 months at government owned Valmet metal factories in Finland, and comprised
902 men and women out of a total eligible population of 2653; 74% of the women
and 63% of the men took part in both re-examinations.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Musculoskeletal disorders were measured as
rheumatic symptoms, clinical findings and presence of chronic specific diseases. 
Eighteen symptoms of stress were combined in a stress symptoms score. Stress
symptoms were associated with rheumatic symptoms and clinical findings in all
sex/occupational class groups at first examination (baseline); and the prevalence
of chronic musculoskeletal disease was associated with stress symptoms in men and
in blue collar women (skilled and semiskilled workers). The mean stress symptom
score of 1973 and 1978 predicted the level of rheumatic symptoms and clinical
findings in 1983, allowing for the relevant score at baseline. The mean score
also predicted the incidence of disease during the second half of the follow up
in women and in blue collar men. Rheumatic symptoms covaried with the stress
symptoms. Change in stress symptoms was predicted by indices of musculoskeletal
disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that stress symptoms and musculoskeletal
disorders are reciprocally related.

PMCID: PMC1052853
PMID: 2636881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):253-60.

The Finnish Family Competence Study: knowledge of childbirth of nulliparous women
seen at maternity health care clinics.

Rautava P(1), Sillanpää M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Turku, Finland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the level of knowledge about pregnancy and
childbirth in nulliparous pregnant women.
DESIGN: Survey using stratified randomised cluster sampling and confidential
questionnaire analysis.
SETTING: Maternity health care clinics.
PARTICIPANTS: Of a total eligible population of 1713 nulliparous pregnant women
from a Finnish province, 1443 took part. Of the remainder, 131 were not informed 
of the study and 139 (8.8%) refused to participate. The distribution of
occupation of the refusers was similar to the participants.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Participants were questioned about their
sociodemographic characteristics and about their knowledge of pregnancy and
childbirth and psychomotor development in the infant, using 28 question sets (118
items). Results showed that, although social differences in the Finnish
population are relatively small, there were still distinct differences in
knowledge about childbearing in the different strata. The largest knowledge gaps 
were about health behaviour, particularly about alcohol intake and nutritional
aspects of pregnancy and lactation, while knowledge of normal and abnormal
delivery was relatively complete. When responses were divided into two groups
with the median correct response rate as the cut off point, those with scores at 
or below the median were significantly more likely to have had modest education, 
to work in lower level employment, or to be very young or unemployed.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences still occur in knowledge levels among nulliparous
pregnant women and particular guidance and care is needed for less advantaged
mothers to ensure that they deliver healthy full term babies.

PMCID: PMC1052846
PMID: 2607305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):241-8.

Time interval since last test in a breast cancer screening programme: a
case-control study in Italy.

Palli D(1), Rosselli del Turco M, Buiatti E, Ciatto S, Crocetti E, Paci E.

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology Unit, Centro per lo Studio e la Prevénzione Oncologica, Firenze,
Italy.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a population based screening programme for breast
cancer.
DESIGN: This was a case-control study of women dying of breast cancer between
1977 and 1987 who had been invited to take part in a screening programme.
SETTING: Community based study of women aged between 40 and 70 years (total
population about 35,000 at 1981 census), living in 23 small towns near Florence, 
Italy.
PARTICIPANTS: 103 cases were identified from death certification, and 515 living 
controls (five per case) selected for year of birth and town of residence.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Screening history was obtained from computer
archive. Sociodemographic information was obtained from town registry offices and
directly from relatives of the deceased and from the controls by postal
questionnaire, and if necessary telephone or personal interview. Analysis was
carried out on two age groups--40-49 years and 50+ years at diagnosis--and
considered the number of screening tests and the time interval since the last
test, separately and together. In the older age group, women with at least one
screening test in the previous 2 1/2 years showed a 50% reduction in risk (odds
ratio 0.49, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.25-0.95). If they had also had another
previous negative screen the risk was reduced to one third (odds ratio 0.35, 95% 
CI 0.14-0.85). There was a significant trend of decreasing risk with increasing
number of screens in older women. No clear evidence of a similar protective
effect was shown for women in the 40-49 year age group.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant protective effect of the screening programme is
evident in older women but not in younger ones. The data do not allow an
assessment of optimal screening interval because of the small number of
previously screened cases.

PMCID: PMC1052844
PMID: 2607303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):228-33.

Relation between leisure time exercise and cardiovascular risk factors among
15-year-olds in eastern Finland.

Marti B(1), Vartiainen E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, Finland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the associations between frequency of leisure time
exercise and cardiovascular risk factors in adolescents.
DESIGN: Cross sectional survey carried out over a 3 month period in 1984.
SETTING: All 24 schools in North Karelia province and 16 randomly selected
schools in Kuopio province.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1142 boys and girls aged 15, randomly selected from 40
schools (16 boys and 16 girls from each), participated out of a possible total
sample of 1280. Main reason for non-participation was absence from school but a
small number refused to participate.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The investigation comprised a medical examination,
including anthropometry, a self administered questionnaire checked by interview, 
a parental questionnaire, and a blood sample for biochemical estimations. The
main findings were: (1) Leisure time exercise was inversely related to daily
smoking (Spearman's rho, boys -0.16, p less than 0.01; girls -0.13, p less than
0.01) but was not related to serum lipoproteins or blood pressure. The inverse
association between exercise and smoking was independent of socioeconomic family 
background. (2) Body mass index and sexual maturation were associated with
systolic blood pressure, and among boys they were inversely related to high
density lipoprotein cholesterol. (3) The lack of linear trends between exercise
and biological risk factors may be explained by the high prevalence of leisure
time exercise in the sample (72% of boys and 71% of girls exercised at least 2-3 
times per week, in addition to physical education classes at school).
CONCLUSIONS: Among 15-year-old eastern Finnish boys and girls, leisure time
exercise is favourably associated with the main behavioural cardiovascular risk
factor, smoking, but not with serum total cholesterol or blood pressure.

PMCID: PMC1052841
PMID: 2607300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):223-7.

Skinfold thickness, body mass index and ischaemic heart disease.

Imeson JD(1), Haines AP, Meade TW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Epidemiology and Medical Care Unit, Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow,
Middlesex, UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the relationship between obesity and subsequent
incidence of ischaemic heart disease (IHD).
DESIGN: Prospective cohort survey.
SETTING: Study of three occupational groups, with follow up examinations.
SUBJECTS: 3500 people recruited between 1972 and 1978 (80% response rate), and
followed up between 1978 and 1984. This report is based on subgroup of 1511 white
men aged 40-64 at entry.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Information was obtained on smoking and family
history of IHD. Blood pressure, weight, height, skinfold thickness at four sites,
fibrinogen, factor VII activity and cholesterol were measured during follow up.
Body mass index (BMI) was used as an index of obesity. BMI was found to be more
strongly correlated with IHD than any of the skinfold measurements, none of which
was significantly associated with IHD when BMI was allowed for. Increase in BMI
by 1 SD (approximately 8 kg) was associated with a 44% increase in the risk of
IHD. Of the four skinfolds, subscapular was the most closely associated with
risk, confirming the relevance of central obesity. The association between
obesity and IHD remained when possible mechanisms for its effects were taken into
account, and its strength may increase with time: for 1 SD increase in BMI, risk 
of events within 5 years was increased by 28%, while risk of events after longer 
than 5 years was increased by 65%.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive strategies for IHD should include avoidance of obesity.

PMCID: PMC1052840
PMID: 2607299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Sep;43(3):214-7.

Smoking and myocardial infarction in women: a case-control study from northern
Italy.

Gramenzi A(1), Gentile A, Fasoli M, D'Avanzo B, Negri E, Parazzini F, La Vecchia 
C.

Author information: 
(1)Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research, Milan, Italy.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between smoking and myocardial
infarction in women.
DESIGN: Case-control study over 5 years.
SETTING: Cases were women admitted to 30 coronary care units in northern Italy.
Controls were admitted to the same hospitals with other acute disorders.
PARTICIPANTS: These were 262 young and middle aged women with acute myocardial
infarction (median age 49 years, range 24-69) and 519 controls with other acute
disorders unrelated to ischaemic heart disease (median age 47 years, range
22-69).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Stratification and the Mantel-Haenszel procedure, 
and unconditional multiple logistic regression were used to obtain relative risks
according to levels of cigarette smoking. The regression equations included terms
for age, education, coffee and alcohol consumption, diabetes, hypertension,
hyperlipidaemia, body mass index and oral contraceptive use. Compared to life
long non-smokers, relative risk was not significantly above unity for ex-smokers 
but among current smokers showed a significant trend to increasing risk with
larger numbers of cigarettes smoked, with risk estimates of 2.3, 5.9 and 11.0 for
less than 15, 15-24 and greater than or equal to 25 cigarettes per day
respectively. Smoking related risks were consistently raised across strata of
hyperlipidaemia, hypertension and increased alcohol and coffee intake.
CONCLUSIONS: In terms of population attributable risk, about 48% of all
myocardial infarctions in young and middle aged Italian women were attributable
to cigarette smoking, which is therefore by far the most important preventable
determinant of the disease.

PMCID: PMC1052838
PMID: 2607297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):384-7.

Teaching residents to read the medical literature: a controlled trial of a
curriculum in critical appraisal/clinical epidemiology.

Kitchens JM(1), Pfeifer MP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Louisville School of
Medicine, Kentucky.

OBJECTIVE: To teach internal medicine residents key principles of clinical
epidemiology that are necessary to read critically the medical literature.
DESIGN: Two-phase, non-randomized, controlled educational trial.
SETTING: University-based training program for residents (PGY-l-PGY-3) in
internal medicine.
PARTICIPANTS: All 83 residents participated in the trial. Seventy residents
completed a test in clinical epidemiology at the end of Phases I and II.
INTERVENTIONS: Residents were assigned to one of eight ambulatory care clinics
for half a day each week. A literature-based curriculum in critical appraisal was
the subject of a weekly pre-clinic conference for four clinics (Group A). The
other four clinics (Group B) had a weekly conference on topics in ambulatory care
medicine. At the end of Phase I, both groups were given a test of basic knowledge
of clinical epidemiology. The curriculum was then modified with the addition of
written questions to emphasize important educational points and to stimulate
resident participation. The modified curriculum became the subject of the
pre-clinic conference for Group B, while Group A changed to topics in ambulatory 
medicine. At the end of Phase II both groups were again tested on basic knowledge
of clinical epidemiology.
RESULTS: Group B performed significantly better on the second test than on the
first, 68.5% vs. 63.3% (p = 0.034), while Group A did not improve (64.5% vs.
65.9%). The differences in test scores for Test II minus Test I were +5.17% in
Group B and -1.44% in Group A (p = 0.019). Twenty-one percent of Group B
residents vs. 5% of Group A residents improved their scores by 18% or more.
CONCLUSIONS: The residency period is a difficult but important time to teach
critical appraisal skills. Educational gains may be small and need to be
critically evaluated to stimulate the development of more effective educational
programs.

PMID: 2795262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):375-83.

Using clinical data to predict abnormal serum electrolytes and blood cell
profiles.

Tierney WM(1), Martin DK, Hui SL, McDonald CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis.

OBJECTIVE: To identify clinical predictors of five abnormalities on the serum
electrolyte panel and two abnormalities on the blood cell profile, to study which
data elements carried predictive information, and to measure the predictive
accuracy and stability of the resulting predictive equations.
DESIGN: Prospective data collection from a computerized medical database
supplemented by data entered by physicians who ordered outpatient tests into
microcomputers. Equations were derived during an eight-month period and later
validated twice in the same setting.
SETTING: Academic primary care practice affiliated with a county hospital.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: Patients were mostly black women; physicians were
full-time academic general internists and medical residents.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 6,570 electrolyte and blood cell
profile panels ordered during the equation derivation period. The mean receiver
operating characteristic (ROC) curve area for the seven equations was 0.849. For 
the 4,977 tests ordered during ten months of prospective validation, the mean ROC
curve area was only 3% less. For three equations, ROC curve areas were lower for 
patients with unscheduled visits than for those with scheduled visits (p less
than 0.05). Except for two equations involving abnormalities with very low
prevalences, the equations were also well calibrated. Prior results for the
abnormality being considered were the strongest predictors, followed by other
laboratory results, diagnoses, and the physicians' estimate of the probability
that the test would be abnormal.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical data can accurately predict abnormal results of common
outpatient laboratory tests. Computers can help find the necessary data and
produce estimates of risk.

PMID: 2795261  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):403-9.

A controlled trial to improve delivery of preventive care: physician or patient
reminders?

Turner BJ(1), Day SC, Borenstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, Jefferson Medical College,
Philadelphia, PA.

OBJECTIVE: To improve the delivery of preventive care in a medical clinic, a
controlled trial was conducted of two interventions that were expected to
influence delivery of preventive services differently, depending on level of
initiative required of the physician or patient to complete a service.
DESIGN: A prospective, controlled trial of five-months' duration.
SETTING: A university hospital-based, general medical clinic.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-nine junior and senior medical residents who saw patients in
stable clinic teams throughout the study.
INTERVENTION: A computerized reminder system for physicians and a patient
questionnaire and educational hand-out on preventive care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Delivery of five of six audited preventive
services improved significantly after the interventions were introduced. The
computerized reminder alone increased completion rates of services that relied
primarily on physician initiative; the questionnaire alone increased completion
rate of the service that depended more on patient compliance as well as on some
physician-dependent services. Both interventions used together were slightly less
effective in improving performance of physician-dependent services than the
computerized reminder used alone.
CONCLUSIONS: These interventions can improve the delivery of preventive care but 
they differ in their impacts on physician and patient behaviors. Overall, the
computer reminder was the more effective intervention.

PMID: 2677271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):392-8.

The effect of gender on the probability of myocardial infarction among emergency 
department patients with acute chest pain: a report from the Multicenter Chest
Pain Study Group.

Cunningham MA(1), Lee TH, Cook EF, Brand DA, Rouan GW, Weisberg MC, Goldman L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To identify differences in the incidences of myocardial infarction in 
women and men with chest pain.
DESIGN: Prospective multicenter cohort study.
SETTING: Emergency rooms of three university and four community hospitals.
PATIENTS: 7,734 emergency room patients with acute chest pain.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Myocardial infarction was diagnosed in 10% of the 
3,896 women, compared with 19% of the 3,838 men, yielding an age-adjusted
relative risk of myocardial infarction for women of 0.54 (95% confidence interval
0.48, 0.60). Physicians were equally adept at admitting women and men with
myocardial infarctions, but men without myocardial infarction or unstable angina 
were significantly more likely to be admitted than were women without these
diagnoses. Most clinical and electrocardiographic features indicating a risk of
myocardial infarction were present in both women and men, but several high-risk
features were less commonly present in women. After adjusting for the other
factors that correlate with each patient's probability of having acute myocardial
infarction, the relative risk of myocardial infarction was the same in women as
men when the emergency department electrocardiogram showed the classic changes
associated with acute myocardial infarction, but the risk was 40% lower in women 
when such electrocardiographic changes were not present.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical features that predict myocardial infarction in men predict 
myocardial infarction in women to a similar extent. However, female gender is
associated with about a 40% lower rate of myocardial infarction except when
classic electrocardiographic evidence is present on the emergency department
electrocardiogram.

PMID: 2677270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):367-74.

Is upper gastrointestinal radiography necessary in the initial management of
uncomplicated dyspepsia? A randomized controlled trial comparing empiric antacid 
therapy plus patient reassurance with traditional care.

Goodson JD(1), Lehmann JW, Richter JM, Read JL, Atamian S, Colditz GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare two strategies for the evaluation and management of
patients who have had acute dyspepsia for four days or more: empiric high-dose
antacid therapy combined with patient reassurance (empiric care) versus therapy
based on prompt upper gastrointestinal radiography (traditional care).
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized trial. The patients in the empiric care group
were reassured that upper gastrointestinal radiography was not necessary and were
subsequently treated with high-dose empiric antacid therapy (15-30 ml of
high-potency antacid one and three hours after meals and at bedtime). The
traditional care group after meals and at bedtime). The traditional care group
received upper gastrointestinal radiography as part of the initial evaluation.
Subsequent treatment was determined by individual physicians based on test
results.
SETTINGS: Fee-for-service, hospital-based primary care practice and Veteran's
Administration medical center outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: All patients were less than 70 years of age and without
gastrointestinal bleeding, anemia, significant weight loss, or other specified
symptoms of severe acid peptic disease. Fifty patients were randomized to
traditional care, and 51 to empiric care. Pre-randomization clinical features
were identical with the exception of sex distribution and baseline disability.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After six months of follow-up, there were no
significant differences in symptom scores, disability, satisfaction, and quality 
of life measures (as measured by the Sickness Impact Profile scores) between the 
two groups. Findings were unchanged when adjusted for sex, study site, alcohol
consumption, and cigarette smoking. Of the radiographs obtained in the
traditional care group, 13 (27%) showed duodenal ulcer disease, gastritis, or
duodenitis. There were no serious complications of ulcer disease or therapy noted
in either group. The average costs per patient associated with traditional care
at one study site were greater, $286 versus $116 (p less than 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Select patients with dyspepsia receiving a combination of
reassurance and empiric antacid therapy do as well as patients whose initial
management strategy includes upper gastrointestinal radiography, at a
substantially lower cost.

PMID: 2677269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Sep-Oct;4(5):388-91.

Impact of prospective payment and discharge location on the outcome of hip
fracture.

Gerety MB(1), Soderholm-Difatte V, Winograd CH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of prospective payment by diagnosis-related
groups (DRGs) on length of stay in the hospital, ambulatory status, and level of 
post-hospital care needed for patients hospitalized with hip fracture.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review of a consecutive series of cases before and
after the reference date of implementation of the prospective payment system
(PPS).
SETTING: Academic, tertiary-care hospital.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: 181 patients 69 years of age or older admitted with
International Classification of Diseases (ICD) or DRG codes for hip fracture.
RESULTS: Length of stay was shorter by 1.37 days in the post-PPS era (p = 0.05). 
Poorer discharge ambulation was found in the post-PPS group (p = 0.089). At one
year, differences in ambulation and nursing home residence were found to be
related not to the implementation of PPS, but rather to the nursing home to which
the patient was discharged. Patients discharged to a facility with active
physical rehabilitation were less likely to remain institutionalized (p = 0.0025)
than those in "ordinary" nursing homes and ambulated more independently (p =
0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The PPS did not have a significant long-term impact on hip fracture 
outcome. Post-hospital care may be of crucial importance to the future quality of
life of hip fracture patients.

PMID: 2552060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Kokyu To Junkan. 1989 Sep;37(9):1003-7.

[Significance of decreased washout rate in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy by
exercise Tl-201 myocardial scintigraphy].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue S, Nezuo S, Tadaoka S, Hasegawa K, Kawahara Y, Kakumae S, Nakamura T, Wada 
Y, Sawayama T.

A clinical significance of decreased washout rate (WR) in hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy by exercise thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy was evaluated.
Thirty-six patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and normal coronary
angiogram were categorized into 3 groups according to initial distribution (ID)
and WR: decreased ID group (17 patients, ID group), normal ID but decreased WR
group (9 patients, WR group) and normal ID and normal WR group (10 patients, N
group).RESULTS: (1) Cardio-thoracic-ratio and left ventricular end-diastolic
pressure were higher in WR group than in other 2 groups. (2) Resting ejection
fraction and left ventricular end-diastolic volume index did not differ in three 
groups. (3) Exercise ejection fraction was increased in N group, whereas it was
not increased in ID or WR groups. It was increased in 47% of ID group, but were
decreased or not changed in all patients of WR group. In conclusion, decreased WR
in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may strongly suggest left
ventricular myocardial damage.

PMID: 2595128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1605-8.

[The significance of the extensive systematic lymphadenectomy for thoracic
esophageal carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki K(1), Tanaka Y, Ueki H, Wakakuwa R, Suzuki T, Tanaka O, Muto T.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery, Niigata University School of Medicine.

1.MATERIALS: One hundred and seventy nine patients with thoracic esophageal
carcinoma who underwent an intrathoracic esophagectomy combined with systematic
lymphadenectomy were investigated. They were roughly classified into two groups, 
i.e., those who received extensive lymphadenectomy in bilateral cervical and
upper mediastinal regions (A group: 78 subjects), and those who underwent
ordinary limited dissection of the lymph nodes in the left cervical and upper
mediastinum (B group: 101 subjects). 2.
RESULTS: Cumulative 5-year survival rate of advanced cancer patients was 31.3% in
A and 22.5% in B, the difference being of significance (p less than 0.05). The
rate of postoperative mortality showed no difference between both groups, i.e.,
3.8% in A and 4.9% in B groups. However, the incidence of postoperative pulmonary
complication was 17.9% in A and 13.9% in B. Recurrent nerve palsy developed in
frequencies of 39.7% and 17.8% in A and B groups respectively. 3.
CONCLUSION: The degree of extended lymph node metastasis in carcinoma of the
thoracic esophagus was closely correlated with its prognosis, and hence it is
extremely important to perform intrathoracic esophagectomy with extensive
systematic lymphadenectomy aiming at the favorable result in surgical treatment. 
It is also required to take preventive measures against postoperative
complications.

PMID: 2586476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1467-70.

[Indication for coronary revascularization in aortic surgery].

[Article in Japanese]

Soma Y(1), Kawada K, Yozu R, Inoue T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

In order to know how to treat the coronary artery disease in scheduled aortic
surgery for aortic aneurysms, a prospective study started about ten years ago
using routine coronary angiography (CAG). Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA): CAG was
performed in 73 among 143 patients and 18 had significant coronary artery
stenoses (CAD), 3 of whom had angina. Concomitant CABG was performed in 2 of 4
patients requiring coronary revascularization (CR) to prevent intraoperative
myocardial ischemia. Complications due to CAD were experienced in the 2 patients 
without CR despite of angina, while patients without angina or with CR had no
complication. Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA): Seventy six among 150 patients had
CAG, and CAD was found in 38. CR was indicated to 5 of 7 patients with angina.
Complications occurred in 2 patients who had not CR in spite of angina. Patients 
without angina had no complication.CONCLUSION: 1) Patients who had angina are at 
high risk for complications due to CAD. 2) Patients with angina and necessity of 
cardiac arrest during aneurysmectomy should have coronary revascularization prior
to aneurysmectomy. 3) Patients without angina are at low risk for myocardial
ischemia in the perioperative period of aortic surgery.

PMID: 2586441  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1362-5.

[Inhibition of thromboxane production might ameliorate liver blood flow in
shock].

[Article in Japanese]

Hanai T(1), Yura J, Ogino K, Hori K, Tanaka M, Mizuno A, Shinagawa N.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nagoya City University Medical School, Japan.

We investigated whether thromboxane (TX), a vasoconstrictor, contributes to liver
disturbance in shock by reducing liver blood flow.SUBJECTS AND METHODS:
experimental groups: Sham, Et: endotoxin 4mg/kg, BDL + Et: bile duct ligation
with Et, OKY. BDL + BDL + Et with infusion of OKYO46 (TX synthetase inhibitor)
5mg, HT: three days after 70% hepatectomy, OKY. HT: HT receiving OKYO46. We
evaluated prostanoid and morbidity in hepatectomized cases.
MEASUREMENT: TX, liver phospholipid, liver blood flow, endotoxin.
RESULTS: Higher TX levels in blood and liver, and reduced liver phospholipid and 
liver blood flow in BDL + Et returned close to sham by OKYO46. High blood
endotoxin in HT decreased by OKYO46. Intraoperative blood losses in cases with
postoperative intraabdominal infection or hepatic failure were greater than those
without complication. Hepatectomized cases with intraabdominal infection showed
higher blood TX than those without complication. TX might be associated with
decreased liver blood flow and with postoperative complication during shock. To
reduce TX production would be beneficial in shock by ameliorating liver blood
flow.

PMID: 2586421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1370-3.

[Usefulness of endotoxin removal from the septic blood with direct hemoperfusion 
using PMX-F].

[Article in Japanese]

Tani T(1), Hanasawa K, Kodama M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Shiga University of Medical Science, Otsu, Japan.

Sepsis and septic shock have been drugs difficult to treat despite many our
therapeutic methods. There are many drugs for sepsis, but few can remove or
detoxify such sabstances as endotoxin. The polystyrene fiber immobilized
polymyxin B (PMX-F) have been invented and it was already confirmed the stability
of its bonding. In this paper, mass-productive PMX-F for the clinical application
were estimated.IN VITRO STUDIES: PMX-F adsorbed endotoxin (10ng/ml) from the calf
serum, and recombinant tumor necrosis factor (80U/ml) from the serine solution.
PMX-F maintained an antimicrobial activities against E.coli sufficiently. Those
activities of PMX-F showed significant difference between PMX-F and carrier
fiber. But PMX-F could not adsorb histamine and thromboxane B2. In vivo studies: 
The treatment of endotoxic mongrel dogs showed early recovery in arterial blood
pressure, and ameliorated survival rate significantly. In human study, 77-year
old male patients who had obstructive jaundice due to recurrent stomach cancer
and biliary tract infection by Klebsiella showed sepsis and DIC. During DHP with 
PMX-F, the change of blood pressure was remarkable better, and platelet counts
decreased, but next morning this count recovered completely and he had no
hemorrhagic tendency. We believe clinical application of PMX-F is safe and
useful.

PMID: 2555663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1374-7.

[The effect of protease inhibitors in shock].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue H(1), Usuba A, Endo Y, Terashima S, Watanabe M, Miura J, Motoki R.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Surgery, Fukushima Medical College, Japan.

Protease inhibitors, such as ulinastatin and gabexate mesilate, are widely used
for the patients in shock state. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the
effects of these protease inhibitors on renal protection and coagulofibrinolytic 
disorders. The obtained results were as follows: 1. Ulinastatin studies. 1) Beta 
2-microglobulin (BMG) excretion and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG)
activity in urine were increased in cases of emergency operation (10 patients)
compared with elective operation (38 patients). 2) In canine experimental model
of renal ischemia, ulinastatin significantly improved urine volume and urine NAG 
levels. 3) Administration of ulinastatin suppressed urine NAG level in 12
patients, but BMG level did not significantly change. 2. Gabexate mesilate (FOY) 
studies. 1) All patients in shock state showed coagulofibrinolytic disorders.
Especially remarkable hypercoagulability was observed in 21 patients. 2) FOY
suppressed platelet aggregation and the release of beta-thromboglobulin and
platelet factor 4. 3) In 24 patients, administration of FOY markedly increased
the antithrombin III levels in early postoperative period. 4) Fibrinolytic system
was not affected any significant changes with administration of FOY.CONCLUSION:
Our results suggested that protease inhibitors are useful for management of the
patients in shock state.

PMID: 2511417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nihon Shishubyo Gakkai Kaishi. 1989 Sep;31(3):914-24.

[Establishment of clinically healthy gingiva in Macaca irus].

[Article in Japanese]

Fukai K, Kato M, Hama K, Bando H, Takaoka J, Hasegawa A.

The purpose of this study was to assess the methods of establishing of clinically
(experimental) healthy gingiva and to evaluate the status of healthy gingiva in
Macaca irus. Three monkeys (2 males and 1 female) were used. After preliminary
feeding with hard food for 6 months, plaque control procedures (scrubbing method,
modified Stillman method, and flossing) were started. Frequency of plaque removal
was three times per week under KETALAR (SANKYO, Co. Tokyo), dissociative
anesthesia. We also monitored clinical data.RESULTS: 1. Forty-nine days later,
clinically healthy gingiva were achieved. During this period, no side effects and
no tolerance occurred using 12.5 mg/kg of KETALAR, and effective time to perform 
the procedure was 21.8 minutes. 2. Depending on the plaque control procedure,
plaque index (P11), gingival index (GI), and probing depth (PD) were reduced
(especially in the first week). However, the level of marginal gingiva (LMG) did 
not change. 3. Initially and throughout the experiment, PII, GI, PD were lower
value in lower jaws, but by the end of experiment there were no differences
between the two jaws in PII and PD. However, GI was still lower in the lower jaw 
at this time. There were no differences between the data for the right and left
sides of the jaws at any time throughout the experiment. 4. At the end of
experiment, the clinically (experimental) healthy gingiva yielded the following
data: PII, 1.7 +/- 0.61; GI, 0.1 +/- 0.60; PD, 1.3 +/- 0.53. No individual
differences were found in any of the monkeys at the end of experiment.

PMID: 2489538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 Sep-Oct;15(5):517-20.

Teenagers and the mothering experience.

vonWindeguth BJ, Urbano RC.

PURPOSE: To determine the relationship between maternal age, perceived social
support, and home environment to mother-child interaction.
METHOD: Thirty-three adolescent mother-child pairs and 33 older mother-child
pairs were randomly selected from a pool of 63 adolescent mothers and 111 older
mothers. The Nursing Child Assessment Feeding Scale (NCAFS), the Personal
Resource Questionnaire (PRQ), and the Home Observation for Measurement of the
Environment (HOME) were completed during a scheduled home visit. One way ANOVA
and Multiple Correlation were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Mother's sensitivity to cues and social-emotional growth-fostering from 
the NCAFS favored older mothers. Avoidance of restriction and punishment from the
HOME favored older mothers. There was a significant relationship between
perceived social support and mother-child interaction for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Maternal behavior was related to mother's age. A mother's perception
of the adequacy of her social support resources may be a critical factor in how
she interacts with her child.

PMID: 2587111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Psychiatr Prax. 1989 Sep;16(5):182-8.

[Long-term benzodiazepine medication].

[Article in German]

Wendland KL(1), Lucius H.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Nervenklinik Kiel.

Benzodiazepine (BD) misuse and dependence in 80 patients, 1974-1983 undergoing
withdrawal treatment, were investigated by means of case histories and
catamnestic inquiries.RESULTS: Three fourth of the patients were women. Many of
the patients suffered from disturbed matrimonial relations, and 36 lived
unmarried, divorced, or widowed. Besides, among the men frequently vocational
difficulties were found, which increased in the course of BD-taking. In
particular after removal of Lorazepam or Bromazepam in 58 cases withdrawal
symptoms appeared, among them seven times delirium and six times epileptic
seizures (grand mal). Catamnestic inquiries were practicable in 51 patients. 20
of them had required no further treatment, while 18 took again BD. But only 3
still proved to be as well psychical as physical dependent, in contrast to 14
before withdrawal treatment. Among the 15 only psychical dependent patients 8
merely showed a low dose dependence. Hence BD-dependence proves to be remediable,
and subsequently shows only little tendency to relapse.

PMID: 2572023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Sep;8(9):631-6.

[Heart insufficiency in acute myocardial infarct. Long-term prognostic
implications. Study of 213 cases of myocardial infarct].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santos AL.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate intra-hospital and first year prognosis of the acute
myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: Univariate analysis of hospital and late mortalities in 21
characteristics on the evolution of the acute phase of myocardial infarction of
patients sequentially admitted in a coronary care unit.
SETTING: Coronary care unit and out patient clinic of a school hospital.
PATIENTS: A group of 213 patients with acute myocardial infarction admitted
sequentially in a coronary care unit was studied.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Making use of a computerized information system the
following characteristics f the patients were prospectively studied: age, sex,
previous history of myocardial infarction, angor, diabetes, hypertension and
tabacism, presence of left ventricular dysfunction electrocardiographic
localization of the infarction, presence of angor in the acute phase of the
infarction, epistenocardic pericarditis, hypertensive reaction, hypotension,
sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia, supraventricular disrhythmias, ventricular 
disrhythmias, A-V block, complete right bundle branch block, complete left bundle
block and peak of CPK values. Univariate analysis was made between each one of
these characteristics and hospitalar and one year mortalities.
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences were obtained in the hospitalar
mortality in the following characteristics: age (p less than 0.001), sex (p less 
than 0.03), previous history of diabetes (p less than 0.05) and tabagism (p less 
than 0.005), left ventricular disfunction (p less than 0.0005), hypotension (p
less than 0.005), sinus tachycardia (p less than 0.0005), sinus bradycardia (p
less than 0.024), A. V. block (p less than 0.004), and peak of CPK (p less than
0.05). Statistically significant differences were found in one year mortality in 
the following characteristics: age (p less than 0.001), left ventricular
disfunction (p less than 0.02), sinus tachycardia (p = 0.0116) and peak of CPK (p
less than 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Influence in the hospitalar mortality was demonstrated by the
following characteristics of the patients with myocardial infarction: age, sex,
previous history of diabetes and tabagism, left ventricular disfunction, infarct 
size expressed by the peak values of CPK, sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia,
hypotensive reaction in the acute phase of the myocardial infarction and A-V
block. Mortality in the late phase infarction was influenced by age, left
ventricular dysfunction, sinus tachycardia and peak values of CPK.

PMID: 2631861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Sep;8(9):593-7; discussion 599.

[Surgery of the coronary vessels in the elderly].

[Article in Portuguese]

Antunes MJ, Fernandes LE, Ferrão JM.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The rising numbers of elderly patients with occlusive coronary
artery disease amenable to surgical correction prompted us to reevaluate the
benefits and risks of aorto-coronary bypass in these patients.
PATIENTS: In the five-year period, from June 1980 through May 1985, 293 patients 
65 years old and older (mean 69.1 years) and with a male: female ratio of 4:1,
were subjected to aorto-coronary bypass.
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 4.8%, higher amongst 71 patients who had
endarterectomy (8.5%) and those who had concomitant valve replacement (7.7%), but
lower (2.5%) in the 99 patients who had only saphenous vein grafts (p less than
0.05). The survivors were followed for three to eight years (mean 4.9 years),
with a cumulative follow-up of 1.005 patient-years. Late mortality was
4.6%/patient-year (46 patients), higher in patients with valve replacement
(6.0%/patients-year; p less than 0.05), but lower in patients with internal
mammary artery grafts (2.6%/patient-year). Late mortality was cardiac-related in 
45.6% of the cases (21/46). Two patients were reoperated upon (0.2%/patient-year)
and other two had percutaneous balloon angioplasty. Thirty six patients (12.9%)
had recurrent angina during the period of follow-up, but the incidence was 20% in
those who had only vein grafts (p = NS). Nine patients had myocardial infarction 
(0.9%/patient-year) of which six (67%) were fatal. In actuarial terms, 80% of the
patients survived and 95% were free from myocardial infarction after six years.
CONCLUSIONS: As in younger patients, coronary surgery in the elderly patient
leads to improved life quality and survival. This study appears to confirm the
superiority of internal mammary artery grafts also in the old patient.

PMID: 2631857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Theor Appl Genet. 1989 Sep;78(3):433-5. doi: 10.1007/BF00265308.

Induced genetic variability in Rhizobium leguminosarum for nitrogen fixation
parameters in Vicia faba L.

Shukla RS(1), Singh CB, Dubey JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, J. N. Agricultural University,
Jabalpur 482 004 (M.P.), India.

SUMARY: The objective of this work was to know the behaviour and variability of
Rhizobium leguminosarum after irradiation. The induced variation was tested under
greenhouse conditions on the variety JV 3 of broad beans (Vicia faba) in six
replications. Induced genetic variabilty was observed for strain, parent and
mutant versus parent. Out of 24 irradiated strains, strain 93-32 performed better
with a greater number of nodules and higher dry weight of nodules per plant and
biological yield. Environment played an important role in the expression of
characters observed. High heritability and genetic advance of these traits
indicated that the nitrogen fixation ability of Rhizobium can easily be improved 
by selection.

PMID: 24227253  [PubMed]


390. Vrach Delo. 1989 Sep;(9):90-1.

[Lipid peroxidation in patients with the initial stage of circulatory
encephalopathy of atherosclerotic origin].

[Article in Russian]

Voloshin PV, Vesel'skiĭ OI.

Examined were 30 patients of young age with initial stage of dyscirculatory
encephalopathy of atherosclerotic genesis. Determined were the level of lipid
peroxidation, state of the physiological antioxidant system, level of
lipids.RESULTS: the patients showed a reduction of the antioxidant defense and
conjugated increase of free-radical oxidation of lipids; direct correlation
between the content of peroxidation compounds and increase of the level of
atherogenic lipoproteids. It is suggested that antioxidants should be used during
the period of their deficit (winter season) in patients of young age.

PMID: 2609634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Yonsei Med J. 1989 Sep;30(3):280-7.

Relationship between the sphericity of femoral head-acetabulum and the low
incidence of primary osteoarthritis of the hip joint in Koreans.

Kim YH.

I examined the sphericity and the congruity of the femoral head and the
acetabulum in 172 Korean fetuses and in 655 Korean adults. I found that Korean
fetal acetabuli and femoral heads are spherical and that the proportion of the
head contained in the acetabulum remains constant and congruous throughout the
fetal life. Adult actabuli and femoral heads are also spherical in both gender
and are there are no visible changes in the shape of the acetabuli and the
femoral heads with respect to age. No evidence was found that the congruity of
the hip joint is a cause of osteoarthritis of the hip joint.CLINICAL RELEVANCE:
Stable hip joints at the time of birth provide an explantation for the low
incidence of congenital dislocation of the hip joint in Koreans. The spherical
femoral head and acetabulum (congruous hip joint) seem to be a contributing
factor to the low incidence of primary osteoarthritis of the hip in Koreans.

PMID: 2588664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):545-9.

Vision screening at 8 and 18 months. Steering Committee of Oxford Region Child
Development Project.

Johnson A(1), Stayte M, Wortham C.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Region Child Development Project, Maternity Department, John Radcliffe
Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of an existing screening programme
based in the community for ocular and vision defects in infants considered at
increased risk of such defects.
DESIGN: Children with ocular or vision defect by the age of 2 were ascertained by
searching records. Those from populations at high risk were matched with their
results from screening tests. The characteristics of the cases among this
population were compared with those of the cases in the remainder of the
population. Patterns of referral and age at referral were studied in both groups.
SETTING: The study was conducted within Oxfordshire Health District.
SUBJECTS: 433 Children at high risk born in 1984 to mothers living in the health 
district at delivery and who either weighed less than 2000 g or weighed 2000 g
and over and required admission to a special care nursery for longer than 24
hours. The low risk population (6254) were infants without these characteristics 
who were resident in the health district at the time of referral.
INTERVENTIONS: Screening tests for vision or ocular defects already routinely
used were applied by health visitors at 8 and 18 months to the children at high
risk.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Comparison of results of screening tests with vision and
ocular defects detected by the age of 2.
RESULTS: Screening tests in current use for vision loss and squint in this age
group were insensitive and had a low positive predictive value when applied to a 
high risk population. Defects that were not apparent on direct inspection were
unlikely to be detected by these tests. In the high risk group the relative risk 
of having a defect was 2.8 (95% confidence interval 1.8 to 4.5) but 85% of all
cases detected by the age of 2 were in children at low risk. Referral patterns
and age of referral differed in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening by health visitors of high risk populations contributes
little to the detection of vision and ocular defects. This type of evaluation
needs to be applied also to low risk populations, who have different referral
patterns and contribute most of the cases.

PMCID: PMC1837412
PMID: 2507064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):541-5.

Influence of past reproductive performance on risk of spontaneous abortion.

Regan L(1), Braude PR, Trembath PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Cambridge Clinical
School.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Oct 28;299(6707):1082.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the incidence of spontaneous abortion in a population
of women in order to establish their risk of spontaneous abortion and the
obstetric factors predisposing to it.
DESIGN: Prospective study of women recruited by radio and poster appeal and from 
hospital outpatient clinics.
SETTING: English provincial community.
PATIENTS: 630 Women from the general population intending to become pregnant.
INTERVENTIONS: The viability of the pregnancy was assessed by abdominal
ultrasonography before completion of the eighth week, and the assessment was
repeated if vaginal bleeding occurred.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Spontaneous abortion or live births in women with or
without a previous history of spontaneous abortion.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of clinically recognisable spontaneous abortion
before 20 weeks of gestation was 12% (50/407 pregnancies). The risk of
spontaneous abortion in each category of patient was classified with respect to
the patient's past reproductive performance and found to be influenced greatly by
her previous obstetric history. In primigravidas and women with a history of
consistently successful pregnancies the incidences of abortion were low (5%
(4/87) and 4% (3/73) respectively), whereas women with only unsuccessful
histories had a much greater risk of aborting the study pregnancy (24% (24/98)), 
even when their sole pregnancy had ended in abortion (20% (12/59)). The outcome
of the last pregnancy also influenced the outcome of the study pregnancy; only 5%
of women (5/95) whose previous pregnancy had been successful aborted, whereas the
incidence of loss of pregnancy among women whose last pregnancy had aborted was
19% (40/214).
CONCLUSIONS: A knowledge of the patient's reproductive history is essential for
the clinical assessment of her risk of spontaneous abortion. As the most
important predictive factor for spontaneous abortion is a previous abortion, the 
outcome of a woman's first pregnancy has profound consequences for all subsequent
pregnancies.

PMCID: PMC1837397
PMID: 2507063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):537-41.

Disturbances of insulin in British Asian and white men surviving myocardial
infarction.

Hughes LO(1), Cruickshank JK, Wright J, Raftery EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow, Middlesex.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Oct 7;299(6704):914-5.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the role of insulin as a cardiovascular risk factor in
British Asian and white men.
DESIGN: Case-controlled study of survivors of first myocardial infarction.
SETTING: District general hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive series of 76 white and 74 Asian men who survived first
myocardial infarction compared with 58 white and 61 Asian male controls without
coronary artery disease who were randomly sampled from the community.
RESULTS: More Asians than white subjects had impaired glucose tolerance or overt 
diabetes as measured by the two hour glucose tolerance test (23/74 (32%) v 11/76 
(15%) (p less than 0.001) among patients; 17/61 (28%) v 3/58 (6%) (p less than
0.001) among controls). Insulin and C peptide concentrations were higher in both 
patient groups than in respective controls (p less than 0.001) and higher in
Asian than in white subjects, irrespective of their glucose tolerance.
Triglyceride concentrations were higher in patients than in controls (1.92 (SD
1.05) v 1.43 (0.82) mmol/l among Asian men; 1.65 (0.83) v 1.3 (0.61) mmol/l among
white subjects; p less than 0.001). Total cholesterol concentrations were lower
in both groups of Asians than in respective white subjects (5.78 (0.99) v 6.22
(1.04) mmol/l (p less than 0.01) among patients; 5.54 (1.01) v 5.65 (1.11) mmol/l
(p less than 0.6) among controls). High density lipoprotein cholesterol
concentrations were lower in Asian than in white subjects. The ratio of total
cholesterol to high density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly higher (p
less than 0.001) in both patient groups (6.69 (1.81) in Asian patients and 6.31
(1.91) in white patients) than in respective controls (5.24 (1.19) and 4.77
(1.43)). Regression analysis identified C peptide concentration and the ratio of 
total to high density lipoprotein cholesterol as powerful independent predictors 
of myocardial infarction in Asian and white men. Total cholesterol concentration 
predicted infarction in white but not in Asian men.
CONCLUSIONS: Secretion and hepatic extraction of insulin are high in survivors of
myocardial infarction and especially high in British Asians. Tissue resistance to
the action of insulin, giving rise to increased pancreatic secretion, may be an
important risk factor for coronary artery disease in both ethnic groups and may
be partly responsible for the high incidence of diabetes and coronary artery
disease in Asian populations.

PMCID: PMC1837390
PMID: 2507062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):533-6.

Effect of captopril on blood pressure and kidney function in normotensive insulin
dependent diabetics with nephropathy.

Parving HH(1), Hommel E, Damkjaer Nielsen M, Giese J.

Author information: 
(1)Hvidöre Hospital, Klampenborg, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme protects
kidney function in diabetic nephropathy.
DESIGN: Open, randomised follow up study of normotensive insulin dependent
diabetics with nephropathy either treated or not with captopril for one year.
SETTING: Outpatient diabetic clinic in a tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: 32 Normotensive patients with insulin dependent diabetes complicated by
nephropathy who were randomised either to the treatment group (n = 15) or to the 
control group (n = 17).
INTERVENTIONS: The treatment group was given captopril (25-100 mg/day) for 12
months, the average dose during the second six months of the study being 40 mg
daily. Controls were not treated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Albuminuria, arterial blood pressure, and the glomerular
filtration rate.
RESULTS: Mean arterial blood pressure fell by 3 (SE 2) mm Hg in the captopril
treated group and rose by 6 (1) mm Hg in the controls. In addition, albuminuria
declined by 11% in the captopril treated group and rose by 55% in the controls,
fractional albumin clearance fell by 17% in the captopril treated group and
increased by 66% in the controls, and the glomerular filtration rate declined by 
3.1 (2.8)ml/min/1.73 m2 with captopril and by 6.4 (3.1) ml/min/1.73 m2 in the
controls.
CONCLUSION: Inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme arrests the progressive
rise in albuminuria in normotensive insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy.

PMCID: PMC1837371
PMID: 2507061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. BMJ. 1989 Aug 19;299(6697):485-7.

Recovery after subarachnoid haemorrhage.

McKenna P(1), Willison JR, Lowe D, Neil-Dwyer G.

Author information: 
(1)Brook General Hospital, London.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Nov 18;299(6710):1257.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the implications of subarachnoid haemorrhage for quality 
of life and aftercare.
DESIGN: Prospective follow up study of patients surviving subarachnoid
haemorrhage over one year (at discharge, three months, and one year) by
examination of cognitive functions (a test battery) and changes in everyday life 
(semistructured interview).
SETTING: Regional neurosurgical unit at a tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: 100 Patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage; 17 were lost during the
study because of ineligibility (further surgery, previous head injury, relevant
psychiatric history, and cultural differences), loss of contact, and
non-compliance; a further 13 patients who developed a neurological deficit were
considered separately.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Performance on cognitive test battery and reported changes 
in quality of life.
RESULTS: At discharge patients with and without neurological deficit scored below
established norms with most tests, but by three months the difference had
resolved in patients without deficit. Reduced quality of life attributable to
subarachnoid haemorrhage at one year mainly included less energy (seven
patients), adverse emotional changes (five), early retirement, affected social
life, and domestic tension (three each). None reported reduced capacity for work.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients surviving subarachnoid haemorrhage without neurological
symptoms have a good prognosis and should be encouraged to return to a normal
lifestyle within about three months.

PMCID: PMC1837314
PMID: 2507029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. BMJ. 1989 Aug 19;299(6697):480-5.

Antihypertensive effect of diet compared with drug treatment in obese men with
mild hypertension.

Berglund A(1), Andersson OK, Berglund G, Fagerberg B.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Department I, Sahlgren's Hospital, Gothenburg University, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether dietary treatment has a similar antihypertensive 
effect to conventional drug treatment while being superior to drugs in improving 
serum lipid concentrations in obese men with mild hypertension.
DESIGN: Six week run in period followed by randomisation to either diet or drug
treatment groups for one year.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic in city hospital.
PATIENTS: 61 Men aged 40-69 years, body mass index greater than or equal to 26,
diastolic blood pressure 90-104 mm Hg when untreated. Exclusion criteria were
signs of organ damage secondary to hypertension and diseases that might have
interfered with compliance or with interpretation of results.
INTERVENTIONS: Dietary treatment was based on weight reduction, restriction of
sodium, and decrease of excess alcohol intake (defined as greater than or equal
to 250 g alcohol per week). Drug treatment used a stepped care approach with
atenolol as drug of first choice.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg; absolute
reductions in blood pressure and serum lipid concentrations.
RESULTS: Mean body weight decreased 7.6 kg in the diet group and increased 0.9 kg
in the drug treatment group (p less than 0.0001), and mean sodium excretion
decreased 42 and 10 mmol/24 h respectively (p = 0.019). There was no difference
in reported alcohol intake. Mean systolic blood pressure decreased 4 mm Hg in the
diet group and 16 mm Hg in the drug group (p = 0.003) and diastolic blood
pressure 3 and 11 mm Hg respectively (p = 0.002). Diastolic blood pressure of 90 
mm Hg was attained by 29% of the diet group (nine men) and 73% (22) of those
receiving drug treatment (mean difference 44%, 95% confidence interval 21 to 67%,
p = 0.001). Dietary treatment produced decreases in mean serum concentrations of 
total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as triglycerides and an
increase in high density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. In the drug
treatment group the changes were in the opposite direction, and the groups
differed significantly in all but total cholesterol.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietary treatment was inferior to conventional drug treatment in
controlling mild hypertension but superior in lowering serum concentrations of
lipids.

PMCID: PMC1837358
PMID: 2507028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. BMJ. 1989 Aug 19;299(6697):477-9.

Effect of salcatonin given intranasally on early postmenopausal bone loss.

Overgaard K(1), Riis BJ, Christiansen C, Hansen MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Glostrup Hospital, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of salmon calcitonin (salcatonin) given
intranasally on calcium and bone metabolism in early postmenopausal women.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, randomised group comparison.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic for research into osteoporosis.
SUBJECTS: 52 Healthy women who had had a natural menopause two and a half to five
years previously.
INTERVENTIONS: The 52 women were allocated randomly to two years of treatment
with either salcatonin 100IU given intranasally (n = 26) or placebo (n = 26).
Both groups received a calcium supplement of 500 mg daily. Seven of the women
receiving salcatonin and six of those receiving placebo left the study before its
end.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Bone mineral content in the spine, the total skeleton, and
the forearms after two years of treatment.
RESULTS: Bone mineral content in the spine was significantly higher in the women 
who had received salcatonin than in those who had received placebo both after one
year and after two years of treatment. After one year the difference was 3.8%
(95% confidence interval 0.0 to 7.6%) and after two years it was 8.2% (3.8 to
12.6%). In contrast, the bone mineral content in the distal and proximal forearms
and in the total skeleton declined similarly in both groups by about 2% each
year, and after two years of treatment the differences between the groups were
not significant. Biochemical estimates of bone turnover were not affected by
salcatonin.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that salcatonin given intranasally in the dose
used prevents bone loss in the spine of early post menopausal women but does not 
affect the peripheral skeleton.

PMCID: PMC1837347
PMID: 2507027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):288-92.

Elevated serum lipids in hypogonadal men with and without hyperprolactinemia.

Oppenheim DS(1), Greenspan SL, Zervas NT, Schoenfeld DA, Klibanski A.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether men with hypogonadism are at risk for
hyperlipidemia.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
SETTING: Neuroendocrine clinical center of a referral-based university medical
center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 18 men with testosterone deficiency who had
prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas, 15 men with acquired secondary
hypogonadism and normal prolactin levels, and 33 normal male controls.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We found a significant elevation in fasting
cholesterol (6.23 +/- 0.28 mmol/L [mean +/- SE] compared with 5.17 +/- 0.13
mmol/L [241 +/- 11 mg/dL compared with 200 +/- 5 mg/dL], P less than 0.01), low
density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (4.11 +/- 0.23 mmol/L compared with 3.34
+/- 0.13 mmol/L [159 +/- 9 mg/dL compared with 129 +/- 5 mg/dL], P less than
0.05), and triglycerides (1.85 +/- 0.26 mmol/L compared with 1.11 +/- 0.07 mmol/L
[164 +/- 23 mg/dL compared with 98 +/- 6 mg/dL], P less than 0.001) in men with
hyperprolactinemia compared with controls. In the normoprolactinemic hypogonadal 
men, cholesterol (6.28 +/- 0.34 mmol/L [243 +/- 13 mg/dL], P less than 0.01), LDL
cholesterol (4.34 +/- 0.34 mmol/L [168 +/- 13 mg/dL], P less than 0.01), and
triglycerides (1.61 +/- 0.18 mmol/L [143 +/- 16 mg/dL], P less than 0.05) were
also significantly higher than in the controls, and were the same as in the
hyperprolactinemic men. High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol did not differ
among the three groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypogonadism in men, with or without hyperprolactinemia, may be
associated with elevation of fasting serum cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and
triglycerides compared with normal men. These data suggest that serum lipid
levels should be evaluated in hypogonadal men. The presence of lipid
abnormalities may affect the decision to treat testosterone deficiency in these
patients.

PMID: 2757313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):280-7.

Combined zidovudine and interferon-alpha therapy in patients with Kaposi sarcoma 
and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)

Kovacs JA(1), Deyton L, Davey R, Falloon J, Zunich K, Lee D, Metcalf JA, Bigley
JW, Sawyer LA, Zoon KC, et al.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Feb 15;112(4):306-7.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the toxicity and potential clinical efficacy of
combined therapy with zidovudine and interferon-alpha for patients with Kaposi
sarcoma and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, open trial study.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic of a government referral-based research hospital.
PATIENTS: Volunteer sample of 39 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infection and Kaposi sarcoma.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received zidovudine, 250, 100, or 50 mg orally every 4
hours; 6 weeks after interferon-alpha was begun at a dose of 5 million U/d, and
the dose was increased every 2 weeks until a maximum tolerated dose was
determined. Patients then received the maximum tolerated dose of the combination 
for a minimum of 12 weeks before formal efficacy evaluations.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the dose-escalation phase, the ability to
tolerate interferon-alpha was clearly related to the zidovudine dose. Of the 13
patients receiving 250 mg of zidovudine, only 1 patient was able to tolerate at
least 10 million U/d of interferon-alpha. Of the 12 patients receiving 100 mg of 
zidovudine, 8 tolerated 10 million U/d, 5 tolerated 15 million U/d, and none
tolerated higher doses. Of the 12 patients receiving 50 mg of zidovudine, 8
tolerated 10 million U/d, 7 tolerated 15 million U/d, and 6 tolerated 20 million 
U/d or more. Dose-limiting toxicities included neutropenia (57%), fatigue (16%), 
thrombocytopenia (14%), and hepatic dysfunction (10%). Of the 22 patients who
received a stable dose of both drugs for 12 weeks, 11 patients had a complete or 
partial tumor response and 8 showed an anti-HIV effect. Peak serum levels of
interferon-alpha (32 to 250 U/mL) and zidovudine (0.40 to 3.85 microM) were in
the ranges previously shown to be synergistic against HIV.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy with zidovudine and interferon-alpha can be
administered to patients with HIV infection and Kaposi sarcoma in doses that
effect antiviral and antitumor responses; it appears to have a potential role in 
managing such patients.

PMID: 2757312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):305-17.

Mitral valve prolapse: causes, clinical manifestations, and management.

Devereux RB(1), Kramer-Fox R, Kligfield P.

Author information: 
(1)New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, New York.

PURPOSE: To assess the causes, methods of diagnosis, clinical spectrum, and
management of mitral valve prolapse.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Results of prospective study of over 800 subjects at Cornell
Medical Center from 1979 to the present were used along with studies published
from 1963 to 1989 identified by computerized literature searches of Index Medicus
and MEDLINE, and by hand searches.
STUDY SELECTION: Studies involving controlled design, longitudinal follow-up, or 
critical assessment of diagnostic methodology, and clinical studies or previous
reviews that have contributed most to the understanding of mitral valve prolapse 
were selected.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data concerning the causes, clinical manifestations and
complications, and prevalence of mitral valve prolapse, as well as the strength
of association between mitral valve prolapse and diagnostic signs, were evaluated
and used to develop a practical approach to evaluating and managing patients.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Most instances of mitral valve prolapse are primary
and inherited, with possible genetic heterogeneity. Mitral prolapse may be
diagnosed by auscultation of midsystolic clicks and late-systolic murmurs that
respond typically to maneuvers, or by billowing of mitral leaflets across the
mitral anular plane in long-axis, two-dimensional echocardiographic views or by a
late-systolic, posterior leaflet displacement of at least 2 mm in meticulously
targeted M-mode recordings. Mitral valve prolapse is associated with thoracic
bony abnormalities, low body weight, low blood pressure, and a modest excess of
orthostatic hypotension, syncope, palpitations, and atrial arrhythmias, but not
with nonspecific symptoms (atypical chest pain, dyspnea, anxiety or panic
attacks). Complications of mitral valve prolapse, including about 4000 mitral
valve operations, 1100 cases of endocarditis, and possibly 4000 sudden deaths per
year in the United States, are concentrated disproportionately in older men, with
about 5% of affected men and 1.5% of affected women ultimately requiring valve
surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylaxis for endocarditis and closeness of follow-up should be
related to the occurrence of the independent risk factors for complications of
mitral prolapse (presence of mitral regurgitation, male gender, and age over 45
years), whereas active management and close observation are needed for severe
mitral regurgitation and advanced ventricular arrhythmias.

PMID: 2667419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):297-304.

Diagnosis of deep-vein thrombosis using duplex ultrasound.

White RH(1), McGahan JP, Daschbach MM, Hartling RP.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Davis Medical Center.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Feb 15;112(4):307-8.

PURPOSE: To critically evaluate the accuracy, advantages, and drawbacks of duplex
ultrasound as a diagnostic test for proximal deep-vein thrombosis.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: An English-language search using MEDLINE (1980 to 1988) and 
bibliographies from articles, and a hand search of pertinent radiology and
ultrasound journals from 1988.
STUDY SELECTION: All series comparing duplex ultrasound to the reference
standard, contrast venography, were reviewed and classified into levels based on 
the quality of study design.
DATA EXTRACTION: Results of duplex ultrasound compared with venography in the
proximal deep venous system, technical problems encountered, frequency of
diagnosis of other causes of leg swelling, and frequency of unsuccessful or
inconclusive studies were collated.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Four well-designed studies reported similar results.
The sensitivity of duplex ultrasound in detecting proximal thrombi ranged from
92% to 95% with a combined sensitivity of 93% (CI, 88% to 98%), and the
specificity ranged from 97% to 100% with a combined sensitivity of 98% (CI, 96%
to 100%). Similar findings were noted in nine other studies that had minor
methodologic flaws. Four studies reported that ultrasound was able to identify a 
nonthrombotic cause of leg swelling in 5% to 15% of cases. Four studies found
that duplex ultrasound was inconclusive in 1% to 6% of cases, with a combined
frequency of 2%.
CONCLUSIONS: Duplex ultrasound appears to be very accurate in the detection of
acute proximal deep-vein thrombosis. This test has major advantages as well as
certain limitations compared with other diagnostic methods.

PMID: 2667418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):273-9.

Taxol: a unique antineoplastic agent with significant activity in advanced
ovarian epithelial neoplasms.

McGuire WP(1), Rowinsky EK, Rosenshein NB, Grumbine FC, Ettinger DS, Armstrong
DK, Donehower RC.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the activity of taxol in patients with advanced,
progressive, and drug-refractory ovarian cancer and to delineate more clearly the
toxicity of taxol in this patient population.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, prospective phase II trial.
PATIENTS: Forty-seven patients with drug-refractory epithelial ovarian cancer who
had one or more lesions measurable in perpendicular diameters. Of these patients,
45 were evaluable for toxicity and 40 were evaluable for response.
INTERVENTIONS: PATIENTS were treated every 22 days with varying doses of taxol
(110 to 250 mg/m2 body surface) given as a 24-hour infusion with subsequent doses
based on adverse effects. A premedication regimen was used to avoid acute
hypersensitivity reactions.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twelve patients (30%; CI, 16% to 44%) responded to
taxol for periods lasting from 3 to 15 months. The dose-limiting toxicity was
myelosuppression with leukocytes affected more severely and commonly than
thrombocytes or reticulocytes. Leukopenia was usually brief in duration but was
associated with sepsis in 3 cases (2 fatal). Other adverse effects included
myalgias, arthralgias, alopecia, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, mucositis, and
peripheral neuropathy. Rare cases of cardiac and central neurotoxicity were also 
noted.
CONCLUSIONS: Taxol is an active agent in drug-refractory ovarian cancer and
deserves further study in combination with other active drugs in previously
untreated patients with advanced ovarian cancer.

PMID: 2569287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):427-31.

Carbohydrate deficient transferrin: a marker for alcohol abuse.

Kapur A(1), Wild G, Milford-Ward A, Triger DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Protein Reference Unit, Royal Hallamshire Hospital,
Sheffield.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of serum carbohydrate deficient transferrin as
detected by isoelectric focusing on agarose as an indicator of alcohol abuse.
DESIGN: Coded analysis of serum samples taken from patients with carefully
defined alcohol intake both with and without liver disease. Comparison of
carbohydrate deficient transferrin with standard laboratory tests for alcohol
abuse.
SETTING: A teaching hospital unit with an interest in general medicine and liver 
disease.
PATIENTS: 22 "Self confessed" alcoholics admitting to a daily alcohol intake of
at least 80 g for a minimum of three weeks; 15 of the 22 self confessed
alcoholics admitted to hospital for alcohol withdrawal; 68 patients with
alcoholic liver disease confirmed by biopsy attending outpatient clinics and
claiming to be drinking less than 50 g alcohol daily; 47 patients with
non-alcoholic liver disorders confirmed by biopsy; and 38 patients with disorders
other than of the liver and no evidence of excessive alcohol consumption.
INTERVENTION: Serial studies performed on the 15 patients undergoing alcohol
withdrawal in hospital. MAIN OUTCOME measure--Determination of relative value of 
techniques for detecting alcohol abuse.
RESULTS: Carbohydrate deficient transferrin was detected in 19 of the 22 (86%)
self confessed alcohol abusers, none of the 47 patients with non-alcoholic liver 
disease, and one of the 38 (3%) controls. Withdrawal of alcohol led to the
disappearance of carbohydrate deficient transferrin at a variable rate, though in
some subjects it remained detectable for up to 15 days. Carbohydrate deficient
transferrin was considerably superior to the currently available conventional
markers for alcohol abuse.
CONCLUSION: As the technique is fairly simple, sensitive, and inexpensive we
suggest that it may be valuable in detecting alcohol abuse.

PMCID: PMC1837301
PMID: 2571374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):437-9.

Provision of hearing aids: does specialist assessment cause delay?

Watson C(1), Crowther JA.

Author information: 
(1)Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):678-9.
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 30;299(6703):855-6.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the main delay in the provision of hearing aids for people
with impaired hearing and identify possible problems and short-comings caused by 
a community based hearing aid dispensing service.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort analysis based on data collected from patients on the 
duration of hearing impairment, from the referral letters in respect of the
general practitioners' findings on otoscopy, and from the ear, nose, and throat
assessment in the clinic with respect to the outcome of specialist otoscopy and
management of the hearing impairment.
SETTING: General ear, nose, and throat outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: 100 Consecutive patients aged 19-94 referred by general practitioners
for the provision of hearing aids or for assessment and treatment of impaired
hearing.
RESULTS: Most patients with impaired hearing did not seek medical advice for at
least a year. The time from referral by the general practitioner to the provision
of a hearing aid was under two months. General practitioners consistently
recognised normality on otoscopy but failed to recognise abnormality in eight of 
45 cases. Seven patients required further investigation to exclude serious
disease and nine had conditions amenable to surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: The main cause of delay in treating impaired hearing is failure by
patients to seek help promptly. Specialist assessment of patients with impaired
hearing is preferable and does not necessarily cause delay in providing hearing
aids. The provision of hearing aids should remain a hospital based service.

PMCID: PMC1837287
PMID: 2507006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):423-7.

Passive smoking and cardiorespiratory health in a general population in the west 
of Scotland.

Hole DJ(1), Gillis CR, Chopra C, Hawthorne VM.

Author information: 
(1)West of Scotland Cancer Surveillance Unit, Ruchill Hospital, Glasgow.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Jan 13;300(6717):120-1.
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):742.

OBJECTIVE-To assess the risk of cardiorespiratory symptoms and mortality in
non-smokers who were passively exposed to environmental smoke.DESIGN: Prospective
study of cohort from general population first screened between 1972 and 1976 and 
followed up for an average of 11.5 years, with linkage of data from participants 
in the same household.
SETTING: Renfrew and Paisely, adjacent burghs in urban west Scotland.
SUBJECTS: 15,399 Men and women (80% of all those aged 45-64 resident in Renfrew
or Paisley) comprised the original cohort; 7997 attended for multiphasic
screening with a cohabitee. Passive smoking and control groups were defined on
the basis of a lifelong non-smoking index case and whether the cohabitee had ever
smoked or never smoked.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cardiorespiratory signs and symptoms and mortality.
RESULTS: Each of the cardiorespiratory symptoms examined produced relative risks 
greater than 1.0 (though none were significant) for passive smokers compared with
controls. Adjusted forced expiratory volume in one second was significantly lower
in passive smokers than controls. All cause mortality was higher in passive
smokers than controls (rate ratio 1.27 (95% confidence interval 0.95 to 1.70)),
as were all causes of death related to smoking (rate ratio 1.30 (0.91 to 1.85]
and mortality from lung cancer (rate ratio 2.41 (0.45 to 12.83)) and ischaemic
heart disease (rate ratio 2.01 (1.21 to 3.35)). When passive smokers were divided
into high and low exposure groups on the basis of the amount smoked by their
cohabitees those highly exposed had higher rates of symptoms and death.
CONCLUSION: Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke cannot be regarded as a safe 
involuntary habit.

PMCID: PMC1837285
PMID: 2507000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):415-9.

NovoSol Basal: pharmacokinetics of a novel soluble long acting insulin analogue.

Jørgensen S(1), Vaag A, Langkjaer L, Hougaard P, Markussen J.

Author information: 
(1)Novo Research Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the courses of absorption and the interindividual and
intraindividual variations in absorption of iodine-125 labelled Ultratard HM and 
NovoSol Basal injected subcutaneously.
DESIGN: Open randomised crossover study. Each patient was tested during two study
periods of five days each, during which he or she received a subcutaneous
injection of either 125I-NovoSol Basal or 125I-Ultratard HM on four consecutive
days. The aim was to detect a reduction in intraindividual standard deviation by 
a factor of two with a probability 0.95, taking 0.05 as the level of
significance. This required 24 degrees of freedom and led to the choice of four
courses in each of eight patients.
SETTING: Referrals to the diabetes research centre in Hvidøre, Copenhagen.
PATIENTS: Eight insulin dependent (type I) diabetics with low or undetectable C
peptide concentrations who were receiving a multiple insulin injection regimen.
One patient withdrew immediately after recruitment.
INTERVENTIONS: After an overnight fast patients received 96 nmol (16 IU insulin) 
of either 125I-NovoSol Basal or 125I-Ultratard HM injected subcutaneously into
the thigh. To ensure that the insulin entered the subcutaneous fat at the same
depth, ultrasonography was performed on each patient before the first injection. 
A different injection site on the thigh was used each day for four days in order 
to facilitate monitoring of the disappearance of four different depots in each
patient.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Residual activity at the injection site was measured
roughly every two hours throughout the day. No radioactivity measurements were
performed overnight (10 pm till 8 am). The residual radioactivity after the
injection on the first day (upper right thigh) was recorded for five days, that
after the injection on the second day (upper left thigh) for four days, after the
injection on the third day (lower right thigh) for three days, and after the last
injection (lower left thigh) for two days.
RESULTS: NovoSol Basal was absorbed according to first order kinetics with a mean
t50% of 35.3 (SEM 1.4) hours; Ultratard HM was absorbed after a lag phase and the
corresponding t50% was 25.5 (2.5) hours. The intraindividual variations in t50%
were significantly smaller with NovoSol Basal than with Ultratard HM (18.4% v
44.5%; p less than 0.001). Interindividual variations, however, were not
significantly different (25.2% v 36.9%; p = 0.38). The total variation in t50%
was substantially smaller with NovoSol Basal than with Ultratard HM (20.3% v
42.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: NovoSol Basal seems to be an appreciable advance over Ultratard HM
as a soluble insulin preparation for obtaining reproducible 24 hour insulin
concentrations in the blood

PMCID: PMC1837259
PMID: 2506998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. BMJ. 1989 Aug 5;299(6695):357-61.

Respiratory symptoms as predictors of 27 year mortality in a representative
sample of British adults.

Carpenter L(1), Beral V, Strachan D, Ebi-Kryston KL, Inskip H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, University of London.

OBJECTIVE: To examine associations between reported respiratory symptoms (as
elicited by questionnaire) and subsequent mortality.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: 92 General practices in Great Britain.
PARTICIPANTS: A nationally representative sample of 1532 British men and women
aged between 40 and 64.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality from all causes, cardiovascular disease, lung
cancer, and chronic bronchitis.
RESULTS: Subjects were interviewed in 1958 regarding various respiratory symptoms
(including cough, phlegm, breathlessness, and wheeze) by using a questionnaire
which formed the basis of the Medical Research Council's questionnaire on
respiratory symptoms. By the end of 1985, 889 deaths had been reported, including
51 in men due to chronic bronchitis. After adjustment for differences in age and 
smoking habits death rates from chronic bronchitis in men who reported symptoms
were greater than those in men who did not for each of the symptoms examined. The
adjusted mortality ratios were 3.4 (95% confidence interval 1.8 to 6.5) for
morning cough, 3.7 (2.0 to 6.9) for morning phlegm, 6.4 (3.0 to 13.8) for
breathlessness when walking on the level, and 10.5 (4.4 to 24.6) for wheeze most 
days or nights. Mortality ratios were also significantly raised for four episodic
symptoms not usually included in more recent respiratory symptom
questionnaires--namely, occasional wheeze (mortality ratio 6.0; 95% confidence
interval, 2.4 to 15.1), weather affects chest (5.7; 3.1 to 10.3), breathing
different in summer (4.9; 2.8 to 8.6), and cold usually goes to chest (3.7; 2.0
to 6.8). The excess mortality associated with these symptoms remained significant
after further adjustment for breathlessness or phlegm. Ratios for all cause
mortality in men and women were also significantly raised for most respiratory
symptoms, death rates being some 20-50% higher in people reporting symptoms after
adjustment for age, sex, and smoking. Breathlessness was the only symptom
significantly associated with excess mortality from cardiovascular disease
(mortality ratio 1.4 (95% confidence interval 1.0 to 1.9) for breathlessness when
walking on the level). Ratios were generally around unity and not significant for
mortality due to lung cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that episodic symptoms, which often do not
appear in standard respiratory questionnaires, predict subsequent mortality from 
chronic obstructive airways disease. This supports the hypothesis that reversible
airflow obstruction may be a precursor of progressive and irreversible decline in
ventilatory function.

PMCID: PMC1837252
PMID: 2506967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. BMJ. 1989 Aug 5;299(6695):349-55.

Comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography in suspected
lesions in the posterior cranial fossa.

Teasdale GM(1), Hadley DM, Lawrence A, Bone I, Burton H, Grant R, Condon B,
Macpherson P, Rowan J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurological Sciences, Southern General Hospital, Glasgow.

OBJECTIVE: To compare computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in
investigating patients suspected of having a lesion in the posterior cranial
fossa.
DESIGN: Randomised allocation of newly referred patients to undergo either
computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging; the alternative investigation 
was performed subsequently only in response to a request from the referring
doctor.
SETTING: A regional neuroscience centre serving 2.7 million.
PATIENTS: 1020 Patients recruited between April 1986 and December 1987, all
suspected by neurologists, neurosurgeons, or other specialists of having a lesion
in the posterior fossa and referred for neuroradiology. The groups allocated to
undergo computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging were well matched in
distributions of age, sex, specialty of referring doctor, investigation as an
inpatient or an outpatient, suspected site of lesion, and presumed disease
process; the referring doctor's confidence in the initial clinical diagnosis was 
also similar.
INTERVENTIONS: After the patients had been imaged by either computed tomography
or magnetic resonance (using a resistive magnet of 0.15 T) doctors were given the
radiologist's report and a form asking if they considered that imaging with the
alternative technique was necessary and, if so, why; it also asked for their
current diagnoses and their confidence in them.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Number of requests for the alternative method of
investigation. Assessment of characteristics of patients for whom further imaging
was requested and lesions that were suspected initially and how the results of
the second imaging affected clinicians' and radiologists' opinions.
RESULTS: Ninety three of the 501 patients who initially underwent computed
tomography were referred subsequently for magnetic resonance imaging whereas only
28 of the 493 patients who initially underwent magnetic resonance imaging were
referred subsequently for computed tomography. Over the study the number of
patients referred for magnetic resonance imaging after computed tomography
increased but requests for computed tomography after magnetic resonance imaging
decreased. The reason that clinicians gave most commonly for requesting further
imaging by magnetic resonance was that the results of the initial computed
tomography failed to exclude their suspected diagnosis (64 patients). This was
less common in patients investigated initially by magnetic resonance imaging
(eight patients). Management of 28 patients (6%) imaged initially with computed
tomography and 12 patients (2%) imaged initially with magnetic resonance was
changed on the basis of the results of the alternative imaging.
CONCLUSIONS: Magnetic resonance imaging provided doctors with the information
required to manage patients suspected of having a lesion in the posterior fossa
more commonly than computed tomography, but computed tomography alone was
satisfactory in 80% of cases...

PMCID: PMC1837226
PMID: 2506965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Aug;121(2):251-8.

Effects of physiologic and supraphysiologic hyperglycemia on early and late-phase
insulin secretion in chronically dialyzed uremic patients.

Schmitz O.

Author information: 
First and Second University Clinic of Internal Medicine, Aarhus Kommunehospital, 
Denmark.

To test secretory capacity of the beta-cell to a glucose stimulus in uremic
patients on chronic dialysis, three hyperglycemic clamps (plasma glucose
increments: 1, 4.5 and 11 mmol/l) were performed in 8 uremic and 8 healthy
subjects. Early-phase insulin and C-peptide responses (delta I and delta C)
during the initial 6 min were consistently exaggerated at all three steps in
uremic patients compared with controls (delta I. 16 +/- 4 vs 4 +/- 2, 41 +/- 11
vs 15 +/- 4 and 60 +/- 12 vs 24 +/- 5 mU/l; delta C. 0.39 +/- 0.13 vs 0.07 +/-
0.02, 0.40 +/- 0.13 vs 0.16 +/- 0.02 and 0.73 +/- 0.15 vs 0.29 +/- 0.04 nmol/l, p
less than 0.05 in all cases). Similarly, late-phase insulin secretion defined as 
the insulin increment between 90 and 120 min after initiation of the glucose
challenge was enhanced in uremic patients at the two highest glycemic steps (44
+/- 10 vs 16 +/- 2 and 123 +/- 29 vs 44 +/- 5 mU/l, both p less than 0.01). The
raised late-phase insulin response allowed comparable glucose disposal in the two
groups (uremic patients: 9.2 +/- 1.0 and 15.5 +/- 1.6 mg.kg-1.min-1.CONTROLS: 9.0
+/- 1.3 and 19.9 +/- 2.4 mg.kg-1.min-1). The slopes of potentiation, i.e. the
slopes of the regression lines expressing the relationship between changes in
insulin increments and changes in glucose, were markedly steeper in uremic
patients (0.45 +/- 0.09 and 0.66 +/- 0.20, early and late-phase respectively)
than in controls (0.20 +/- 0.06 and 0.25 +/- 0.03).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 2672688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Aug;121(2):270-8.

Heterogeneity of pituitary adenoma cell subpopulations from acromegalic patients 
obtained by Percoll density gradient centrifugation.

Hofland LJ(1), van Koetsveld PM, Verleun TM, Lamberts SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Erasmus University, The Netherlands.

Pituitary adenoma cells from 6 acromegalic patients were separated on continuous 
Percoll density gradients according to differences in their density. Two adenomas
produced GH only in culture, the other 4 adenomas produced either GH and PRL (one
adenoma) or GH and alpha-subunit (one adenoma) or GH, PRL and alpha-subunit (2
adenomas). The cell subpopulations obtained by this technique differed in the
amount of hormone production per 10(5) cells: GH release decreased from the low
density fractions to the higher density fractions in 5 of 6 adenomas.
Intracellular GH levels completely followed this profile. In the mixed
GH/alpha-subunit adenomas the alpha-subunit profile completely paralleled the GH 
profile, whereas in the mixed GH/PRL adenomas the PRL profile showed a pattern
different from that of GH (and alpha-subunit). In neither of the adenomas did we 
find any differences between the subpopulations with respect to the
responsiveness of GH, PRL or alpha-subunit release to GHRH, TRH and the
somatostatin analogue SMS 201-995.CONCLUSIONS: 1. Within pituitary adenomas from 
acromegalic patients heterogeneity exists with respect to hormone production per 
cell. 2. The cell subpopulations obtained by density gradient centrifugation are 
not different in their responsiveness to SMS 201-995, GHRH or TRH. 3. Because GH 
and alpha-subunit release by the fractions from the mixed GH/alpha-subunit
secreting adenomas were completely parallel, further evidence for co-release of
GH and alpha-subunit by the same tumoural cells is provided.

PMID: 2549755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):144-52.

Major bleeding in outpatients treated with warfarin: incidence and prediction by 
factors known at the start of outpatient therapy.

Landefeld CS(1), Goldman L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

PURPOSE: To determine the incidence of major bleeding in outpatients treated with
warfarin and to identify predictive factors known at the start of therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of 565 patients starting outpatient therapy
with warfarin upon discharge from a university hospital were reviewed. Follow-up 
information was obtained for 562 patients (99.5%). Bleeding was classified as
major or minor using explicit criteria. The cumulative incidence of bleeding was 
estimated by means of survival analysis. Independent risk factors for major
bleeding were identified using Cox regression analysis in 375 randomly chosen
patients; they were tested in the remaining 187 patients.
RESULTS: Major bleeding occurred in 65 patients (12%) and was fatal in 10
patients (2%). The cumulative incidences of major bleeding at one, 12, and 48
months were 3%, 11%, and 22%, respectively. The monthly risk of major bleeding
decreased over time, from 3% during the first month of outpatient therapy to 0.3%
per month after the first year of therapy. Five independent risk factors for
major bleeding--age 65 years or greater, history of stroke, history of
gastrointestinal bleeding, a serious comorbid condition (recent myocardial
infarction, renal insufficiency, or severe anemia), atrial
fibrillation--predicted major bleeding in the testing group; the cumulative
incidence of major bleeding at 48 months was 2% in 57 low-risk patients, 17% in
110 middle-risk patients, and 63% in 20 high-risk patients.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide a quantitative basis for evaluating the risk
of major bleeding in individual patients at the start of outpatient therapy with 
warfarin. Whether the risk of bleeding can be reduced in high-risk patients
without reducing the benefit of therapy remains to be determined.

PMID: 2787958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):183-90.

Characteristics of non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients with secondary failure
to oral antidiabetic therapy.

Groop L(1), Schalin C, Franssila-Kallunki A, Widén E, Ekstrand A, Eriksson J.

Author information: 
(1)Fourth Department of Medicine, Helsinki University Hospital, Finland.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Apr;88(4):446-7.

PURPOSE: Secondary failure to treatment with oral antidiabetic agents frequently 
occurs in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. In the search
for causes of such failures, we examined patient- and disease-related factors in 
nonresponders and in responders to treatment with oral antidiabetic agents.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of three groups: (1) 34
nonresponders to treatment with sulfonylureas; (2) 25 patients who still
responded to treatment with sulfonylureas; and (3) 10 age-matched healthy control
subjects. In addition to patient-related factors such as adherence to diet and
knowledge of diabetes, we examined insulin response to a test meal and hepatic
and peripheral insulin sensitivity during a euglycemic insulin clamp in
combination with indirect calorimetry and infusion of [3H-3-]glucose.
RESULTS: Patient-related factors such as daily nutrient intake, activity score,
knowledge of diabetes, and "stress level" were similar in both groups. However,
nonresponders had a higher rate of basal hepatic glucose production (4.60 +/-
0.14 versus 3.63 +/- 0.26 mg/minute/kg of lean body weight; p less than 0.001),
which was less suppressed by euglycemic hyperinsulinemia (about 100 microU/mL)
than was that of the responders (p less than 0.001). In addition, total
insulin-stimulated glucose metabolism was reduced (5.07 +/- 0.22 versus 7.09 +/- 
0.56 mg/kg.LBM.minute; p less than 0.001), and this was mainly accounted for by a
reduction in non-oxidative glucose metabolism (glycogen synthesis and anaerobic
glycolysis) (1.78 +/- 0.22 versus 3.54 +/- 0.49 mg/kg.LBM.minute; p less than
0.001). The severity of hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance correlated with
the plasma glucose concentration but was unrelated to insulin secretion. In a
multiple linear regression analysis, glucose overproduction in the liver (26.1%),
impaired peripheral glucose metabolism (17.3%), and insulin deficiency (12.6%)
could explain only 56% of the causes of secondary drug failure.
CONCLUSION: Secondary failure to treatment with oral hypoglycemic agents is
determined by the disease itself rather than by patient-related factors.
Treatment of secondary drug failure should therefore aim at ameliorating both
hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance.

PMID: 2757059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):173-7.

New-onset seizures associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection:
causation and clinical features in 100 cases.

Holtzman DM(1), Kaku DA, So YT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

PURPOSE: We attempt to define the significance and most common causes of
new-onset seizures in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
In addition, we review the seizure type, neurologic examination, and other
clinical features to better address diagnostic and management issues in these
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed 100 cases of new-onset seizures in HIV-infected
patients who underwent complete evaluations at the University of California, San 
Francisco, hospitals.
RESULTS: Seizures were the presenting symptom of HIV-related illness in 18
patients, six of whom developed no other HIV-related illness until at least four 
months after the first seizure. Common causes in the 100 patients included mass
lesions, HIV encephalopathy, and meningitis. No cause for the seizures was found 
in 23 patients despite a complete evaluation. An underlying cause was found in
all patients with focal neurologic deficits but in only two of 24 who had normal 
results on an interictal neurologic examination. Focal ictal features were not
predictive of cause. A cause was found in all 12 patients with status epilepticus
or medically refractory seizures. A total of 12 of the 87 (14%) patients who
received phenytoin developed a hypersensitivity reaction. Despite the brevity of 
follow-up in some patients, many patients, including those with no definable
cause, had multiple seizures prior to the administration of anticonvulsants.
CONCLUSION: The direct effects of HIV on the brain may be the single most common 
cause of seizures in this population. We favor treatment of a single seizure in
patients with HIV infection.

PMID: 2757058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):167-72.

Refractoriness to chemotherapy and poor survival related to abnormalities of
chromosomes 17 and 7 in lymphoma.

Cabanillas F(1), Pathak S, Grant G, Hagemeister FB, McLaughlin P, Swan F,
Rodriguez MA, Trujillo J, Cork A, Butler JJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston.

PURPOSE: Lymphoma cells usually show cytogenetic abnormalities, but their
relationship to prognosis has not been as extensively studied as in leukemia. A
group of previously untreated cases of lymphoma with evaluable metaphases was
examined for the association between cytogenetic abnormalities and clinical
outcome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 104 patients, from whom fresh tumor 
samples were obtained for cytogenetic tests. Because of the complexity of
lymphoma karyotypes, the cases were divided into four patterns according to the
type of abnormality of chromosome 17 or 7 present. Treatment of patients was
given based on histologic grade and stage of disease. Response to treatment was
evaluated according to previously described methods.
RESULTS: Patients with true abnormalities of chromosome 17 or 7 (defined as those
with either structural abnormalities of the short arm of these chromosomes or
monosomy of these chromosomes with no associated unidentified markers) were
observed to have an adverse prognosis. The overall response rate and
tumor-related mortality were less favorable for patients with these cytogenetic
abnormalities. By applying multivariate analysis, we found that this observation 
was independent of the effect of serum lactic dehydrogenase level, histologic
grade, or tumor burden.
CONCLUSION: True abnormalities of chromosome 17 or 7 in patients with lymphoma
are associated with a poor response to chemotherapy, short time to treatment
failure, and high tumor-related mortality rate. These findings raise the question
of the potential involvement of some gene or oncogene, perhaps the p53 oncogene, 
which might impart a survival advantage to the malignant cells.

PMID: 2757057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):160-6.

Noninvasive assessment of cardiomyopathy in normotensive diabetic patients
between 20 and 50 years old.

Bouchard A(1), Sanz N, Botvinick EH, Phillips N, Heilbron D, Byrd BF 3rd, Karam
JH, Schiller NB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.

PURPOSE: To further the understanding of diabetic heart disease, we tested the
hypothesis that an asymptomatic group of normotensive diabetic patients between
20 and 50 years old had a restrictive cardiomyopathy independent of clinically
significant coronary artery disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Quantitative two-dimensional echocardiography and stress
myocardial perfusion scintigraphy were performed to detect and characterize the
cardiac abnormalities in this study group comprising 88 patients with rigorously 
classified diabetes and 65 volunteer control subjects.
RESULTS: Diabetic patients were shown to have a mildly reduced left ventricular
end-diastolic volume index: 50.1 +/- 8.2 and 52.1 +/- 14.7 mL/m2 for patients
with type I and type II diabetes, respectively, versus 58.9 +/- 11.7 mL/m2 for
control subjects. The left ventricular diastolic filling was also impaired in
diabetic patients as reflected by a lower atrial emptying index: 0.73 +/- 0.24
and 0.76 +/- 0.3 for type I and type II diabetics, respectively, compared with
1.14 +/- 0.24 for control subjects. Exercise tolerance was normal in subjects
with type I diabetes and slightly reduced in subjects with type II diabetes. Only
one patient developed regional ischemia on thallium exercise testing.
CONCLUSION: Using a comprehensive, noninvasive approach, we have shown that
asymptomatic normotensive patients with type I or type II diabetes who were
between 20 and 50 years old had a restrictive cardiomyopathy characterized by
mildly reduced left ventricular end-diastolic volume and altered left ventricular
compliance independent of critical coronary artery disease.

PMID: 2757056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):153-9.

Bleeding in outpatients treated with warfarin: relation to the prothrombin time
and important remediable lesions.

Landefeld CS(1), Rosenblatt MW, Goldman L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

PURPOSE: To determine the relation of bleeding to prothrombin times and important
remediable lesions in outpatients treated with warfarin.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An inception cohort of 565 patients starting outpatient
therapy with warfarin on discharge from a university hospital was assembled.
Detailed records of outpatient prothrombin times were obtained for 103 of 130
case subjects with major or minor bleeding and for 117 control patients without
bleeding. A nested case-control design was used to evaluate the association of
bleeding with temporally related prothrombin times; odds ratios were estimated
using multivariate logistic regression analysis to control for known predictors
of major bleeding. The relation of bleeding to important remediable lesions was
determined in all 130 cases of bleeding.
RESULTS: For each 1.0 increase in the prothrombin time-to-control ratio, the odds
ratio for major bleeding during the week after a prothrombin time measurement
increased 80%; the odds ratio for minor bleeding increased 50%. These odds ratios
were lower during the first month of therapy and higher thereafter. Bleeding was 
related to important remediable lesions in 49 of 130 cases (38%), but these
lesions were unknown before bleeding in only 22 cases (17%). The mean prothrombin
time rose sharply at the time of bleeding in patients without important
remediable lesions, but not in patients with lesions. New, previously unknown
lesions (including nine malignancies) were discovered in 20 of 59 case subjects
(34%) with gastrointestinal bleeding or hematuria, but in only two of 71 case
subjects (3%) with other bleeding (p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our results provide a valid quantitative basis for estimating the
odds of bleeding in relation to the prothrombin time and the yield of diagnostic 
evaluation in patients with bleeding.

PMID: 2757055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):132-8.

Effect of long-term normalization of serum complement levels on the course of
lupus nephritis.

Laitman RS(1), Glicklich D, Sablay LB, Grayzel AI, Barland P, Bank N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Jul;89(1):125.

PURPOSE: We compared the long-term outcome of patients with lupus nephritis in
whom normalization of complement levels (CH50) was sustained by adjustment of
immunosuppressive therapy to those patients with persistently low complement
levels despite similar immunosuppression in whom therapy was adjusted solely on
the basis of clinical disease activity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-nine female patients with lupus nephritis recruited 
from 1972 to 1979 were prospectively studied (mean follow-up, 116.7 +/- 11
months). Entry criteria included initial renal biopsy, low CH50, and elevated
anti-DNA antibody levels. A second biopsy was performed in 24 patients after an
interval of 40.6 +/- 5 months. Treatment was started with prednisone (1
mg/kg/day). Azathioprine at a dose of 1.5 to 2.0 mg/kg/day was added if
complement was not normalized by prednisone alone. Twenty-five of 39 patients had
normal complement levels within six months (Group 1), and immunosuppressive
therapy was tapered but continuously readjusted to the lowest dosage that
preserved normal CH50 and maintained clinical remission. Eight of these 25
patients subsequently became persistently hypocomplementemic due to inadequate
drug intake (Group 1B), whereas the complement levels continued to be controlled 
in the other 17 patients (Group 1A). Despite similar therapy, the remaining 14
patients did not achieve normalization of complement within the initial six
months of therapy, and therefore future treatment decisions were based solely on 
clinical symptoms (Group 2). Renal pathologic lesions were classified according
to World Health Organization criteria and a semi-quantitative chronicity index.
RESULTS: During the first six months, there were no significant differences in
clinical or histologic features between patients in whom complement levels were
controlled and patients in whom complement levels were not controlled. After a
mean observation period of 10 years, however, patients with consistent
normalization of complement (Group 1A) did much better than patients with only
short-term complement control (Group 1B) or persistent hypocomplementemia (Group 
2). Both groups with low complement levels had a similar outcome with
significantly worse kidney and patient survival. Life-table analysis demonstrated
that the differences in outcome between complement-controlled and
complement-uncontrolled groups became apparent only after five or more years of
follow-up. Patients with a low chronicity score on initial biopsy whose
complement level was controlled did uniformly well with no renal failure or
death. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2757054  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):127-31.

Evaluating health-care needs of the poor: a community-oriented approach.

Hubbell FA(1), Waitzkin H, Mishra SI, Dombrink J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Irvine.

PURPOSE: Concern has arisen over the provision of health care for the poor. In a 
project sponsored by a local community hospital, we conducted a telephone survey 
to determine unmet health-care needs of low-income families living in Orange
County, California, and made recommendations to address those needs.
METHODS: The survey assessed demographic characteristics and access to medical
care of 652 adults and their families.
RESULTS: In general, we found that the poor (incomes below 125% of the poverty
level), the uninsured, and the Latino respondents had lower access measures than 
the nearly poor (incomes between 125% and 200% of the poverty level), insured,
and Anglo subjects. However, insurance status was the strongest predictor of
access in this low-income population. Important unmet health-care needs included 
prenatal care and preventive care. In response to our findings, the sponsoring
hospital has instituted new health-care programs to help meet these needs.
CONCLUSION: This community-oriented approach for improving problems of access to 
medical care for the poor may be appropriate for other localities.

PMID: 2757053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):139-43.

Elevated tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-6 serum levels as markers
for complicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria.

Kern P(1), Hemmer CJ, Van Damme J, Gruss HJ, Dietrich M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Bernhard-Nocht-Institute for Tropical Medicine, Hamburg, 
Federal Republic of Germany.

PURPOSE: Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) has been implicated in the
pathology of experimental malaria. To establish its relevance to human malaria,
we studied serum levels of two monocyte-derived cytokines, TNF-alpha and
interleukin-6 (IL-6), as well as of the lymphocyte-derived mediator interferon
gamma (IFN-gamma) in patients with malaria before and during antiparasitic
treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty serum samples of 40 patients with
malaria (Plasmodium falciparum [n = 32], Plasmodium vivax [n = 8]) were analyzed.
IL-6 was measured by a highly sensitive and specific bioassay, TNF-alpha by
immunoradiometric assay, and IFN-gamma by radioimmunoassay.
RESULTS: Elevated cytokine levels could be detected in the majority of patients
with P. falciparum malaria before treatment (31 of 32, 21 of 32, and 21 of 32 for
TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IFN-gamma, respectively), but only in some patients with P. 
vivax malaria (four of eight, one of eight, and zero of eight for TNF-alpha,
IL-6, and IFN-gamma, respectively). Serum concentrations of the monokines
TNF-alpha and IL-6 correlated significantly with parasitic density (p less than
0.001). No such correlation was obtained with the circulating IFN-gamma
concentration. The levels of monokines TNF-alpha and IL-6 were markedly elevated 
in 18 P. falciparum-infected patients with complicated clinical courses (median
values for TNF-alpha 172 pg/mL, for IL-6 16 U/mL, peak values: 896 pg/mL and
1,000 U/mL, respectively). The correlation between TNF-alpha and IL-6
concentrations in serum (n = 40, r = 0.56, p = 0.0002) suggests co-ordinate
production of those mediators.
CONCLUSION: Organ impairment in human malaria was found to be correlated with the
amount of circulating cytokine levels of TNF-alpha and IL-6. Thus, imbalances of 
the cytokine network in untreated P. falciparum infection serve as markers of
severity of disease. Modulation of cytokine response could represent a novel
approach to the treatment of severe organ dysfunctions in human malaria.

PMID: 2667356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):178-82.

Lack of glucose elevation after simulated tube feeding with a low-carbohydrate,
high-fat enteral formula in patients with type I diabetes.

Peters AL(1), Davidson MB, Isaac RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, UCLA 90048.

PURPOSE: Commercially available enteral formulas frequently cause hyperglycemia. 
This often leads to difficult and complex diabetes management with glucosuria and
urinary losses of calories, fluid, and electrolytes. In this study, we compared a
new product, EN-8715 (8% soluble fiber, 18% Polycose, 7% fructose, 50% fat, 17%
protein), with a standard feeding product, Ensure HN (53% simple carbohydrates,
30% fat, 17% protein), to determine whether the new product would lower the
glucose response.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten subjects (four women and six men) with type I diabetes 
were evaluated in paired, simulated tube feeding studies. After an overnight
fast, a Biostator (artificial endocrine pancreas) was attached to each subject,
and a steady-state blood glucose level of 150 mg/dL (8.4 mM) was established. The
Biostator was then programmed to deliver a small basal amount of insulin (0.1
mU/kg/minute [718 pmol/kg/minute]), and the patients were given 20 mL of the
randomly assigned formula every 15 minutes for 240 minutes (320 mL).
Counterregulatory hormone responses to bringing the initial glucose response to
the two enteral feeding formulas were measured and compared.
RESULTS: The glucose response (mg/dL/four hours +/- SEM) essentially did not rise
after EN-8715 (-2 +/- 33 mg/dL/four hours [-0.11 +/- 1.83 mM/four hours])
compared with that for Ensure HN (190 +/- 32 mg/dL/four hours [10.64 +/- 1.79
mM/four hours]). Urinary glucose losses (g +/- SEM) were significantly (p = 0.01)
less after the new product (1.4 +/- 0.6 g [7.8 +/- 3.3 mmol] versus 5.7 +/- 1.5 g
[30.2 +/- 8.3 mmol]). There were no significant differences in counterregulatory 
hormone responses. Side effects were minimal and product acceptance was similar.
CONCLUSION: A low-carbohydrate, fiber-containing enteral feeding formula can
limit hyperglycemia in patients with type I diabetes.

PMID: 2502921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Anaesthesist. 1989 Aug;38(8):385-90.

[10 years' experience with heart surgery in Jehovah's witnesses].

[Article in German]

Gombotz H(1), Rigler B, Matzer C, Metzler H, Winkler G, Tscheliessnigg KH.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie der Universität Graz.

As a result of their interpretation of the Bible, members of Jehovah's Witnesses 
do not accept blood transfusions under any circumstances. Consequently, they
present moral and ethical problems to surgeons and anesthetists, especially in
cardiac surgery. PATIENTS and METHODS. From November 1978 to November 1988, 66
members Jehovah's Witnesses were scheduled for cardiac surgery; 57 patients were 
operated upon (mean age 33.3 years, 14 days to 70.4 years; mean body weight 51
kg, 0.7 to 95.5 kg); 21 were younger than 14 years. Patients with hematocrit
(Hct) less than 35%, expected high intra- and postoperative blood loss,
compromised left ventricular function, ST-segment alterations, critical aortic
stenosis, severe unstable angina pectoris, complex heart defects, especially in
children, extreme body weight, severe diabetes, renal insufficiency,
coagulopathies, severe pulmonary disease, and heavy smokers were excluded from
operation. Whereas in nonbypass patients no special blood-saving techniques were 
used, in bypass patients a modified version of isovolemic hemodilution, with a
hypothermic, bloodless priming technique of extracorporeal circulation (ECC) was 
performed after induction of anesthesia. At the end of the ECC all blood
collected in the pericardial and pleural cavities was returned to the oxygenator 
and the entire content of the extracorporeal circuit was infused into the patient
through the aortic cannula. All patients receiving ECC were ventilated for 24 h
postoperatively and received dopamine (2-5 micrograms/kg) and antibiotics
routinely.RESULTS: Due to the above mentioned contraindications, 9 patients were 
not accepted for surgery, 10 were operated upon without cardiopulmonary bypass or
blood-saving techniques. In 47 patients open heart surgery with ECC and moderate 
or deep hypothermia was performed. In the adult patients (n = 36) Hct values
decreased from 44.4% (35-70%) preoperatively to 32.1% (21-46%) after
hemodilution, reached their lowest levels during cardiopulmonary bypass at 17.9% 
(9.9-43%), and increased to 33.7% (22%-43%) at the end of the operation. Hct
averaged 28.2% (20%-39%) on the 3rd and 33.2% (23%-46%) on the 12th postoperative
day. In children (n = 11) Hct decreased from 47.2% (36.9%-70%) to 33.6%
(27.2%-49.1%) after hemodilution, during bypass to 16.1% (10.5%-25.5%) and
increased to 32.1% (24.4%-37.4%) at the end of the operation. On the 3rd
postoperative day Hct was 25% (21.4%-39%) and increased to 29.4% (25.1%-40%) on
the 12th postoperative day. No statistical differences in Hct values were found
between both groups. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2782596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Anasth Intensivther Notfallmed. 1989 Aug;24(4):206-11.

[Infection as a cause of multiple organ failure. Definition, pathophysiology and 
diagnostic parameters].

[Article in German]

Schuster HP.

Author information: 
Medizinische Klinik I Städtisches Krankenhaus Hildesheim, Lehrkrankenhaus der
Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

DEFINITION: Several clinical observations support the hypothesis that bacterial
sepsis is the main aetiological factor in at least half of the patients
developing multiple organ failure. Sepsis is defined as the pathophysiological
alterations and life-threatening clinical consequences of the action of
microorganisms or their products invading the blood stream from a focus of
infection. The clinical course of sepsis is highlighted by initial multiorgan
insufficiency progressing to severe multiple system organ failure.
PATHOPHYSIOLOGY: Pathogenetic bacteria and bacterial toxins arise from the septic
focus, overcome the defence mechanisms of the body, continuously invade the blood
stream, activate the biological cascade systems and initiate release of mediators
from blood and tissue cells. Endotoxin and activated mediators cause endothelial 
and organ cell dysfunction and cell damage by at least three mechanisms:
maldistribution of blood flow; cytotoxia; direct inhibition of oxygen-utilising
cell enzymes.
CLINICAL PICTURE: The septic disease begins with unspecific signs caused by
invasion of bacteria, followed by alterations of the circulatory system, the
blood clotting system, the metabolism, initiating vital organ dysfunctions and
finally acute respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal, hepatic failure and septic
encephalopathy.
DIAGNOSIS: The clinical diagnosis of sepsis is based on the finding of an obvious
septic focus with the presence of at least four of the following 5 criteria: (I) 
fever above 38.8 degrees C or hypothermia below 35.5 degrees C; (II) tachypnoea
(greater than 24/min) or hypocapnia (PaCO2 less than 32 mmHg); (III) tachycardia 
(greater than 100 Bpm), (IV) leucocytosis (greater than or equal to 15.000/mm3)
or leucopenia (greater than 5.000/mm3); (V) presence of at least one indicator
for inadequate organ perfusion like mental alterations, hypoxaemia (PaCO2 less
than 75 mmHg while breathing room air), hyperlactataemia (greater than 1,6
mmol/l), diuresis below 30 ml/h, drop in systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg. 
A positive blood culture or a positive limulus test are frequent but are not
considered to be obligatory for the diagnosis of sepsis.

PMID: 2683847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):206-12.

Anti-neutrophil-elastase defenses of the lower respiratory tract in alpha
1-antitrypsin deficiency directly augmented with an aerosol of alpha
1-antitrypsin.

Hubbard RC(1), Brantly ML, Sellers SE, Mitchell ME, Crystal RG.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if aerosolization of purified human plasma alpha
1-antitrypsin is an effective means for increasing lower respiratory
anti-neutrophil-elastase defenses in alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, before-and-after trial with a 7-day treatment period.
Companion studies in animals to determine lung epithelial permeability to alpha
1-antitrypsin.
PATIENTS: Twelve patients with homozygous Z-type alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency
and mild to moderate emphysema.
INTERVENTIONS: Aerosol administration of human plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin, 100 mg
every 12 hours for 7 days. Single, 100-mg aerosol dose to anesthetized sheep with
indwelling thoracic lymph duct catheters for direct assessment of lung
permeability.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Treatment resulted in increased alpha
1-antitrypsin levels in the lung epithelial lining fluid (0.28 +/- 0.07 microM
before therapy to 5.86 +/- 1.03 microM after therapy) and increased
anti-neutrophil-elastase capacity (0.78 +/- 0.38 microM before therapy to 4.16
+/- 0.95 microM after therapy). Aerosolized alpha 1-antitrypsin diffused across
the respiratory epithelium and entered lung interstitial lymph (in sheep) and
reached the systemic circulation (in sheep and humans). No side effects were
noted.
CONCLUSION: Short-term aerosol administration of human plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin
to patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency is safe and feasible, resulting
in a return to normal of anti-neutrophil-elastase defenses in the lower
respiratory tract. The aerosol approach, therefore, merits serious long-term
evaluation as an alternative to other parenteral forms of administering
therapeutic proteins.

PMID: 2787611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):238-44.

Occupational illness: case detection by poison control surveillance.

Blanc PD(1), Rempel D, Maizlish N, Hiatt P, Olson KR.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):195-7.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the usefulness of poison control center detection in
occupational illness surveillance.
DESIGN: Case series of all occupationally related exposures referred for poison
control center consultation over 6 months. Follow-up structured interviews were
done of exposed persons and health care providers. Cases were traced under
established occupational illness reporting programs.
SETTING: A regional poison control center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 461 symptomatic occupational exposure cases.
After exclusions and losses to follow-up, interview of 301 patients and the
treating physician, physician's assistant, or nurse practitioner for the 223 of
the patients under direct medical care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: One hundred and fifty-five persons (61%; CI, 55%
to 67%) had systemic or respiratory illness; 109 (36%; CI, 31% to 41%) had eye or
skin conditions. Work practices were associated with exposures more often than
technical failure; 118 persons (39%; CI, 33% to 45%) reported lack of respirators
or other appropriate personal protective equipment. For 223 persons who received 
direct medical care, only five treating health care providers (2%; CI, 0.2% to
4%) reported occupational specialization, although occupational care was a
regular practice activity for 128 of the health care providers (57%; CI, 51% to
63%). Sixty-seven cases (22%; CI, 17% to 27%) were detected by the Doctor's First
Report surveillance program; 97 cases (32%; CI, 27% to 37%) comprised the maximal
detection estimated for Occupational Safety and Health Administration
surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS: Poison control center detection provides a useful surveillance
measure for occupational illness. The proportion of case detection failures by
established surveillance programs suggests that the incidence of occupational
illness in the United States, which is calculated from these incomplete programs,
may be three to five times greater than previously estimated.

PMID: 2751181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):218-22.

Acute postoperative confusion and hallucinations in Parkinson disease.

Golden WE(1), Lavender RC, Metzer WS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether patients with Parkinson disease are at an
increased risk for postoperative confusion.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review of patients with Parkinson disease who
remained in the hospital at least 48 hours after their surgery. Current data were
compared with published historical controls.
SETTING: Recent medical records of a university-affiliated hospital, Veterans
Administration hospital, and community hospital.
PATIENTS: Available charts of patients with Parkinson disease who had had surgery
in the last 2 years. Patients were excluded if they were disoriented at admission
or had serious metabolic disturbances.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Fifteen of twenty-five postoperative patients with
Parkinson disease (60%; CI, 39% to 78%) suffered significant acute confusion, and
9 of these patients had documented hallucinations. Neuropsychiatric changes were 
frequently delayed after surgery. The acute confusional state lasted an average
2.5 days; several patients, however, were discharged before resolution. These
disturbances did not appear to be related to type of anti-parkinsonian medication
or anesthetic.
CONCLUSION: In comparison with historical controls, the relative risk of patients
with Parkinson disease having an acute postoperative confusional state is between
2.8 and 8.1. These patients may need environmental supports during the
postoperative period.

PMID: 2751180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):199-205.

Outcomes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the elderly.

Murphy DJ(1), Murray AM, Robinson BE, Campion EW.

Author information: 
(1)Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1991 Mar 15;114(6):519-20.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Sep 1;113(5):408-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):686-7.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jan 1;112(1):74-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):854.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the success rate of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
in the elderly and to define characteristics of elderly patients for whom
cardiopulmonary resuscitation is effective.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
SETTING: Five Boston health-care institutions: two acute-care hospitals; two
chronic-care hospitals; and one long-term-care institution.
PATIENTS: Five hundred and three consecutive patients aged 70 and over who
received cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of 503 patients, 112 (22%) survived initially but 
only 19 (3.8%) survived to hospital discharge. The poorest outcomes were for
patients with unwitnessed arrests (1 of 116 survived), terminal arrhythmias such 
as asystole and electromechanical dissociation (1 of 237 survived), and patients 
with cardiopulmonary resuscitation lasting more than 15 minutes (1 of 360
survived). Only 2 (0.8%; CI, 0.0% to 2.0%) of 244 patients with out-of-hospital
cardiopulmonary arrests left the hospital alive. Of 259 patients with in-hospital
arrests, 17 (6.5%; CI, 3.4% to 9.6%) survived to discharge. Most survivors had
ventricular arrhythmias and were resuscitated within minutes. Initial survivors
with either impaired consciousness or functional impairment after the arrest had 
significantly worse chances of survival than patients without these impairments.
CONCLUSION: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation is rarely effective for elderly
patients with cardiopulmonary arrests that are either out-of-hospital,
unwitnessed, or associated with asystole or electromechanical dissociation.

PMID: 2751179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):223-31.

CD4 counts as predictors of opportunistic pneumonias in human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) infection.

Masur H(1), Ognibene FP, Yarchoan R, Shelhamer JH, Baird BF, Travis W, Suffredini
AF, Deyton L, Kovacs JA, Falloon J, et al.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if circulating CD4+ lymphocyte counts are
predictive of specific infectious or neoplastic processes causing pulmonary
dysfunction.
DESIGN: Retrospective, consecutive sample study.
SETTING: Referral-based clinic and wards.
PATIENTS: We studied 100 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) who had had 119 episodes of pulmonary dysfunction within 60 days after CD4 
lymphocyte determinations.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Circulating CD4 counts were less than 0.200 X
10(9) cells/L (200 cells/mm3) before 46 of 49 episodes of pneumocystis pneumonia,
8 of 8 episodes of cytomegalovirus pneumonia, and 7 of 7 episodes and 19 of 21
episodes of infection with Cryptococcus neoformans and Mycobacterium
avium-intracellulare, respectively. In contrast, circulating CD4 counts before
episodes of nonspecific interstitial pneumonia were quite variable: Of 41
episodes, 11 occurred when CD4 counts were greater than 0.200 X 10(9) cells/L.
The percent of circulating lymphocytes that were CD4+ had a predictive value
equal to that of CD4 counts. Serum p24 antigen levels had no predictive value.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumocystis pneumonia, cytomegalovirus pneumonia, and pulmonary
infection caused by C. neoformans or M. avium-intracellulare are unlikely to
occur in HIV-infected patients who have had a CD4 count above 0.200 to 0.250 X
10(9) cells/L (200 to 250 cells/mm3) or a CD4 percent above 20% to 25% in the 60 
days before pulmonary evaluation. Patients infected with HIV who have a CD4 count
below 0.200 X 10(9) cells/L (or less than 20% CD4 cells) are especially likely to
benefit from antipneumocystis prophylaxis.

PMID: 2546472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):213-7.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis of unknown primary site in women. A distinctive subset 
of adenocarcinoma.

Strnad CM(1), Grosh WW, Baxter J, Burnett LS, Jones HW 3rd, Greco FA, Hainsworth 
JD.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To define the clinical features and results of systemic
treatment in women with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary site involving
predominantly the peritoneal surfaces.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of 18 patients treated at a single institution
between 1978 and 1984.
PATIENTS: All 18 women had abdominal carcinomatosis and had no primary site
identified at laparotomy. Nine patients had limited residual tumor (maximal tumor
diameter, 3 cm or less) after initial cytoreductive surgery, and 9 patients had
extensive residual disease.
INTERVENTIONS: In general, patients were treated according to standard guidelines
for treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma. All patients had initial laparotomy 
with attempted cytoreduction; of these 18 patients, 16 subsequently received
cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Patients were restaged either clinically (10
patients) or with second-look surgery (8 patients).
RESULTS: The median survival for all patients was 23 months. Five patients had
complete response to chemotherapy, and three patients remain disease-free 41, 59,
and 77 months after diagnosis. Patients with limited residual disease had longer 
median survival than did those with extensive residual disease (31 months
compared with 11 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Women with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary site involving
predominantly the peritoneal surface should be distinguished from other patients 
with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary site because they have a more indolent
disease course, a higher response rate to systemic therapy, and a chance for
long-term, disease-free survival after therapy. Although optimal treatment is
undefined, we recommend that these patients be treated using the guidelines
established for therapy of advanced ovarian carcinoma, including initial surgical
cytoreduction followed by cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy.

PMID: 2502058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Cardiologia. 1989 Aug;34(8):713-20.

[Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: study of the pattern of onset using dynamic
electrocardiography].

[Article in Italian]

Balducelli M, Capucci A, Boriani G, Magnani B.

We have examined 24 hours ECG Holter recordings of 22 patients without any
organic heart disease and with recurrent episodes of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation (PAF) to check the possible sympatho-vagal influence on spontaneous 
initiation. Patients were divided into 3 groups according to average heart rate
(HR) during the 24 hours recording and to the mode of onset of the arrhythmia:
sympathetic (only diurnal episodes, HR greater than or equal to 75 b/min before
the onset of the episode, average 24 hours HR greater than or equal to 80 b/min, 
progressive or sudden shortening of sinusal cycle before the onset), vagal (only 
nocturnal episodes, HR less than or equal to 60 b/min before the onset, average
24 hours HR less than or equal to 60 b/min, progressive or sudden lengthening of 
sinusal cycle before the onset of the episode) or "others" who did not show the
aforementioned characteristics.RESULTS: there are not only 2 types of patients
under prevalent sympathetic or vagal control but even patients who show mixed
patterns; in the sympathetic group there are significant differences between
ectopic atrial beats (EAB) that start a PAF and isolated EAB in: prematurity
index (0.51 +/- 0.11 vs 0.45 +/- 0.07; p less than 0.001) coupling time (381 +/- 
36 ms vs 419 +/- 48 ms; p less than 0.005), sinus cycle length (PP) before the
onset of the arrhythmia (761 +/- 192 ms vs 950 +/- 175 ms; p less than
0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2605583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Aug;16(8 Pt 2):2792-6.

[Effects and side effects of hypertensive intra-arterial chemotherapy (CDDP, PEP)
in advanced cancer of the uterine cervix].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwanari O(1), Date Y, Yoshino N, Miyako J, Ryukou K, Moriyama M, Nakayama S,
Kitao M, Fujita Y, Yasui K.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shimane Medical University.

We have been treating advanced cancer of the uterine cervix with intra-arterial
cisplatin (CDDP) and pepleomycin (PEP) (injected into the bilateral internal
iliac artery), combined with radiotherapy and hysterectomy. Concomitant
angiotensin II (AT II) administered by intravenous drip infusion was double the
tumoral blood flow and thereby enhanced the efficiency of the intra-arterial
chemotherapeutic regimen. But CDDP runs the risk of renal and myelotoxicity, so
we studied renal dysfunction after treatment by examining serum and urinary beta 
2-microglobulin (beta 2-m), and RBC, Hb, WBC, lymphocyte, and PLT.RESULTS: At 1
week after the treatment, evaluation of the histological effects showed, Grade
IIb: 72.7% (8/11 cases). Serum beta 2-m was within normal limit and not changed. 
Urinary beta 2-m levels increased to abnormal levels at 1 and 2 weeks after
treatment, and fell to normal levels at 3 weeks after treatment. RBC, Hb, WBC,
lymphocyte, and PLT fell most at 3 weeks after treatment and then increased
slowly. This suggests that hypertensive intra-arterial chemotherapy (CDDP)
impaired kidney and bone marrow, mildly and reversibly, and its appropriate
interval is about 4 weeks.

PMID: 2476964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Herz. 1989 Aug;14(4):205-13.

[Technical and methodologic aspects of ambulatory long-term blood pressure
monitoring systems].

[Article in German]

Zurmann J.

Author information: 
Klinik Roderbirken der LVA Rheinprovinz, Leichlingen.

The development of noninvasive, portable blood pressure measuring units began in 
1962 with semi-automatic devices and cassette recorders, followed by the first
automatic unit in 1968 and the introduction of digital storage system in 1978.
Systems in common use today consist of a portable, battery-driven blood pressure 
monitor and a print-out unit. In the following, the System 5200 from SpaceLabs,
which has been in use for three years in our clinic, will be described.TECHNICAL 
ASPECTS: In a monitor unit, amplication and filtering of analogue data measured
and differentiation between signal and noise is carried out. An A/D converter
digitalizes the analogue data. An integrated microprocessor analyses measured
data, regulates inflation and deflation of the cuff pressure, out-put of measured
and calculated values on an LCD display and storage of data. Data from 200
measurements is stored in a 2K byte RAM CMOS system. A personal computer serves
for programming the monitor and evaluation of the stored data. Blood pressure
measurement is carried out auscultatory with a microphone or oscillometrically if
Korotkoff sounds are not detected. If the signal is disturbed, measurement is
repeated within two minutes. Blood pressure measurements are performed at
freely-programmable intervals from six to 60 minutes; varying time intervals can 
also be chosen. AUSCULTATORY BLOOD PRESSURE MEASUREMENT: A miniature pump
integrated in the monitor inflates the cuff within a few seconds to a pressure of
160 mmHg or, on subsequent measurements, to 25 mmHg above the last recorded
systolic value. On registration of Korotkoff sounds, the cuff pressure is
increased in steps of 25 mmHg until the sounds disappear and then deflated in
steps of 3 to 5 mmHg. On detection of the first Korotkoff sound, the
instantaneous cuff pressure (which is converted to an electric signal by a
transducer) is stored as the systolic value. Further deflation then occurs
rapidly to 90 mmHg or 10 mmHg above the last measured diastolic value. With
higher diastolic values, again, there is an increase in cuff pressure in steps of
25 mmHg until the onset of Korotkoff sounds and then renewed deflation in steps
of 3 to 5 mmHg. On disappearance of the Korotkoff sounds, the prevailing cuff
pressure is recorded and stored as the diastolic value (Figure 1). To register
the Korotkoff sounds optimally, the microphone is positioned above the brachial
artery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2676811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1989 Aug;71(7):1020-30.

Prediction of properties of fracture callus by measurement of mineral density
using micro-bone densitometry.

Aro HT(1), Wippermann BW, Hodgson SF, Wahner HW, Lewallen DG, Chao EY.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

An experiment was designed to determine whether the material properties of
fracture callus can be predicted by the measurement of mineral density. Rat
tibiae that had a closed fracture were used to obtain uniform specimens of
fracture callus at sequential stages of healing. An in vitro indentation test was
done and tissue was biopsied, using a trephine, to determine the hardness and
calcium content of a standardized area of callus tissue. The hardness of the
callus was correlated with the mineral density of the local tissue, which
initially had been measured non-invasively with single-photon-based micro-bone
densitometry. The progress of differentiation and remodeling of callus was
determined by comparative planimetric and microradiographic analyses of tissue.
Determinations of density showed a linear correlation with concentrations of a
hydroxyapatite equivalent solution (r = 0.997, p less than 0.001), with the ash
weight of control specimens of cortical-trabecular bone (r = 0.998, p less than
0.001), and with the calcium content (micrograms per cubic millimeter) of the
fracture callus (r = 0.854, p less than 0.001). The hardness of the callus had a 
non-linear relationship (r = 0.959, p less than 0.005) with the mineral density
per volume of tissue, as measured by micro-bone densitometry.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: 
The appearance of fracture callus on conventional radiographs is an important
clinical finding in the assessment of fracture-healing. It is, however, an
unreliable predictor of the strength of the union of the fracture.
Three-dimensional imaging and quantification of bone mineral provide additional
data about the quality and geometry of fracture callus. Our study showed that
mineral content per unit of volume is a good index of hardness of the fracture
callus. Thus, quantitative imaging may be useful clinically for monitoring
fracture-healing.

PMID: 2760077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Lipid Res. 1989 Aug;30(8):1137-45.

Influence of development, estrogens, and food intake on apolipoprotein A-I, A-II,
and E mRNA in rat liver and intestine.

Staels B(1), Auwerx J, Chan L, van Tol A, Rosseneu M, Verhoeven G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium voor Experimentele Geneeskunde en Endocrinologie, Gasthuisberg,
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium.

The influence of development and ethinylestradiol (EE) on apolipoprotein (apo)
A-I, A-II, and E mRNA in rat liver and intestine was studied by dot blot
hybridization and Northern blot analysis. ApoA-I mRNA levels were maximal in the 
perinatal period and declined after day 15. An opposite trend was noted for the
apoA-II mRNA levels, whereas apoE mRNA remained fairly constant. Liver apoA-I
mRNA levels increased after ovariectomy (OVX). A further rise was observed when
EE was given at 2000 micrograms/day. When the influence of OVX and EE was
controlled for food intake by pair-feeding, OVX still increased hepatic apoA-I
mRNA. The rise in liver apoA-I mRNA after EE, however, was no longer significant.
Under the same conditions OVX slightly increased intestinal apoA-I mRNA. EE (2000
micrograms/day) decreased intestinal apoA-I mRNA to 80% of the pair-fed controls.
Liver apoA-II mRNA levels did not change after OVX when the animals were fed ad
libitum, but decreased slightly when the rats were pair-fed. EE caused a
dose-dependent decrease in liver apoA-II mRNA, irrespective of food intake. None 
of these treatments caused any change in liver apoE mRNA levels. Serum apoA-I
levels increased upon OVX, while serum apoE did not change. EE provoked a
dose-dependent decrease of both apolipoproteins in serum.IN CONCLUSION: 1)
Changes in food intake play an important role in the in vivo effects of estrogens
on apolipoprotein mRNA levels. 2) The stimulatory effect of OVX on hepatic apoA-I
mRNA as well as the inhibitory effect of EE on hepatic apoA-II mRNA are
independent of food intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2504861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Klin Wochenschr. 1989 Aug 1;67(15):774-83.

[Effect of captopril therapy on sodium and water excretion in patients with liver
cirrhosis and ascites].

[Article in German]

Brunkhorst R(1), Wrenger E, Kühn K, Schmidt FW, Koch K.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Nephrologie, Zentrums Innere Medizin der Medizinischen Hochschule,
Hannover.

Ascites in patients with cirrhosis of the liver frequently is refractory to
diuretic treatment. It was postulated that vasoconstriction of the renal cortex, 
mediated by activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS), may be
one course of the disturbed sodium- and water-excretion in these patients. We
therefore investigated in 14 cirrhotic patients with ascites under constant
diuretic treatment the effects of low-dose captopril therapy on urinary sodium-
and potassium-excretion, body weight, abdominal girth, serum-sodium, -potassium, 
creatinine-clearance, plasma-renin-activity (PRA), plasma-aldosterone (PA) and
mean arterial pressure (MAP). After a control period of 4 days the patients
received 2 x 6.25 mg/d captopril for 5 days and 4 x 6.25 mg/d for further 5 days.
Treatment was followed by a second control period without captopril. PRA
increased significantly after 2 days of captopril treatment. 2 x 6.25 mg/d
captopril induced a significant increase in sodium excretion and a significant
decrease of body weight. MAP decreased slightly but significantly without
clinical signs of hypotension. 4 x 6.25 mg/d captopril resulted in a further
reduction of body weight and a further enhancement of sodium excretion. Three
days after withdrawal of captopril sodium output was significantly reduced
again.CONCLUSION: In cirrhotic patients low-dose captopril seems to be efficient 
in the treatment of ascites resistant to diuretics without causing major side
effects.

PMID: 2671477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nihon Hotetsu Shika Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Aug;33(4):863-77.

[Studies on influences of artificial palatal plates on pronunciation].

[Article in Japanese]

Horiuchi M.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of the alteration of
palatal form on pronunciation. Three types of artificial palatal plates
simulating the upper complete denture, which artificial posterior teeth position 
was more lingually than natural dentition, were made for each dentulous subject. 
Difficulty of articulatory movements and sound qualities were assessed when the
subjects pronounced /sa/, /si/, /ka/, /ki/, /ci/, /hi/, and /ri/ with each plate.
The distortional sounds judged by auditory psychological experiment were analysed
by acoustic methods, and mandibular movements during pronunciation of them were
measured.RESULTS: 1. /ki/ and /hi/ were affected remarkably when the posterior
position was more lingually, and /ri/, /ci/ and /sa/ were also affected. 2. The
acoustic characteristics of distortional sounds were estimated by peak
trajectories, supectrum envelopes, peak frequencies and sound waveforms of
consonant parts, formant frequencies and formant trajectories of following
vowels, and segemental durations. 3. Mandibular movements did not influence
directory on the acoustic characteristics of distortional sounds. It was thought 
that tongue and lips mainly influenced on those.

PMID: 2489741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nihon Jinzo Gakkai Shi. 1989 Aug;31(8):891-5.

[Renal failure in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria].

[Article in Japanese]

Hida M, Watanabe J, Takamiya T, Tanaka K, Kitamura M, Iida T, Hiraga S, Satoh T.

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, acquired hemolytic disorder 
characterized by a membrane abnormality of red cells, and characterized by two
major clinical features of gross hemoglobinuria and diffuse venous thrombosis. In
Japan, the present report records the first case of acute renal failure
complicating PNH with treated by hemodialysis and was almost completely
reversible.CASE: A 41 year-old woman was admitted for high fever (39.8 degrees
C), dyspnea and clinical signs of a respiratory infection. She was started on
Cefotax 1,000 mg 3 times daily. She subsequently developed acute renal failure
and which treated by hemodialysis and was almost completely reversible. Following
treatment of her renal failure, respiratory infection and anemia, she initially
made good progress and was discharged.

PMID: 2593321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Aug;63(8):810-8.

[An experimental study of the assessment of peripheral nerve function by the
horseradish peroxidase method].

[Article in Japanese]

Konishi H.

Author information: 
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nagasaki University, School of Medicine,
Japan.

The spinal anterior horn cells could be stained by using retrograde transport of 
the horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in the rat. This experiment had two major
purposes. The first was the confirmation of where to distribute the rat
motoneurons innervating the tibialis anterior muscles by using HRP method; the
second was the analysis of whether the number of the spinal anterior horn cells
indicate the peripheral nerve damage. For evaluation of the damage of nerve
function, the sciatic nerves of the rats were injured. After the injury, the
relationship between the evoked potential and the number of the labeled cells
were analyzed.RESULTS: The labeled cells revealed a distribution of motoneurons
between L3 and L5; the lower the number of the labeled cells, the lower the
amplitude of the M wave. The HRP method was considered to be useful for
quantitative evaluation of the peripheral nerve damage.

PMID: 2809360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. No To Shinkei. 1989 Aug;41(8):799-805.

[Changes in local cerebral glucose utilization, DC potential and extracellular
potassium in various degree of experimental cerebral contusion].

[Article in Japanese]

Kubota M(1), Nakamura T, Sunami K, Ozawa Y, Namba H, Yamaura A, Makino H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, School of Medicine, Chiba University, Japan.

Pathophysiology of the traumatized brain, especially that of cerebral contusion, 
is very complex and has not been well understood. In recent years, changes in
extracellular ion concentration have been known in various pathological
conditions such as cerebral concussion, spinal contusion, ischemia, hypoglycemia,
epilepsy and spreading depression as one of the triggers to lead to secondary
brain damage. To know the metabolic and ionic changes following cerebral
contusion, the authors made various degree of cerebral contusion by fluid
percussion method, and observed successive changes in EEG, DC potential,
extracellular potassium concentration and local cerebral glucose utilization
(LCGU).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using 42 male Wistar rats, mild (0.2 kg/cm2),
moderate (0.4 kg/cm2) and severe contusion (0.6 kg/cm2) were made in the left
lower parietal region of the rats. EEG, DC potential and extracellular potassium 
concentration (using potassium sensitive glass microelectrode) were monitored for
four to five hours after making the contusions. LCGU (by 14C-2-deoxyglucose
method) was studied at the time of the negative shift of DC potential.
RESULTS: The negative shift of DC potential with EEG suppression was observed at 
30 min. to 3 hours after injury. The severer the injury was, the earlier and the 
more frequent negative shifts appeared. LCGU showed no significant changes in the
mild injury group. In the moderate injury group, frequent negative shifts of DC
potential associated with EEG suppression were observed. A 20% increase of
glucose utilization in the cortex of the lesion side was observed whereas 50%
decreases in the subcortical structures were found. In the severe injury group,
EEG was suppressed immediately after contusion and had never recovered. DC
potential fluctuated and was unstable. The increase of LCGU was noted not only in
the cortex of the lesion side but also in some of the subcortical structures
(hippocampus, caudate nucleus, dentate nucleus and thalamus). The extracellular
potassium concentration rose to 30 mM, being correlated closely with DC
potential.
DISCUSSION: Increase of LCGU associated with EEG suppression, negative shift of
DC potential and elevation in extracellular potassium concentration was thought
to be due to spreading depression. It was postulated that spreading depression
following cerebral contusion causes energy failure and can lead to secondary
brain damage.

PMID: 2803836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 1989 Aug;11(4):278-82.

[Effect of proglumide (PGM) on bile flow and contents in humans and animals].

[Article in Chinese]

Fang XC.

Proglumide (PGM) is a CCK/gastrin receptor antagonist. The purpose of this study 
was to observe the effect of PGM on bile flow and the outputs of bile contents in
humans and animals.METHODS: 1) In patients who had undergone cholecystectomy,
bile was collected through T tubes during fasting at 15 min intervals before
(control) and after PGM 1.2 ingestion. Drinking water test was done under the
same conditions. 2) Dogs and rats were fasted overnight, and the common bile duct
was cannulated for bile collection. PGM was given intravenously in bolus. Bile
flow, electrolytes, cholesterol, bilirubin, total bile acid, protein and lecithin
(content) were measured in humans and dogs. The values were expressed as value
per 15 min and compared with control using the Student's t-test. The results
show: bile flow, outputs of HCO-3, K+, Na+, CI-, Ca++, cholesterol, bilirubin,
total bile acid and protein levels all increased remarkably after PGM
administration. In rats, the bile flow increased in a dose response manner
between PGM dosages of 100, 200, 400 mg/kg (r = 0.795, P less than 0.001 at 15-30
min). We conclude that PGM has a choleretic effect in human as well as in animals
of different species.

PMID: 2532974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. ZWR. 1989 Aug;98(8):665-6, 668-9.

[Conserving silicoater treated surfaces with primers for use in adhesive
prostheses].

[Article in German]

Pfeiffer P.

To achieve permanent bond strength to enamel adhesive fixed partial dentures can 
be coated for example by a SiOx-C-layer followed by a silane primer (Silicoater
system). Now and then these resin bonded restorations will be incorporated some
days later. The object of this in-vitro-study was to investigate the possibility 
of preserving metal surfaces treated by the Silicoater system.RESULTS: Metal
surfaces coated in the described manner can be preserved by unfilled Bis-GMA-,
PMMA-adhesives or a light curing opaquer (PMMA monomer) for later bonding without
loss of bond strength. To cure the opaquer a special light curing apparatus is
needed.

PMID: 2534781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. BMJ. 1989 Jul 29;299(6694):294-7.

Outbreak of coagulase negative staphylococcus highly resistant to ciprofloxacin
in a leukaemia unit.

Oppenheim BA(1), Hartley JW, Lee W, Burnie JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Withington Hospital, Manchester.

OBJECTIVE: To define an outbreak of bacteraemia due to coagulase negative
staphylococci highly resistant to ciprofloxacin in a leukaemia unit, investigate 
the source and mode of spread of the outbreak strain, and assess control
measures.
DESIGN: The outbreak strain was characterised by five different typing methods.
Surveillance of patients, staff, and environment was carried out during the
outbreak and five months after control measures were introduced.
SETTING: A unit with 10 beds for adults with leukaemia and patients receiving
bone marrow transplants. The outbreak occurred during a trial of ciprofloxacin
for empirical treatment of neutropenic fevers.
INTERVENTIONS: Ciprofloxacin was withdrawn from use in the unit and daily bathing
with chlorhexidine gluconate solution started. Main outcome measure--The absence 
of bacteraemia due to the outbreak strain for five months after control measures.
RESULTS: During the study 49 patients developed 21 episodes of bacteraemia due to
the outbreak strain, which was ciprofloxacin resistant (minimum inhibitory
concentration greater than or equal to 128 mg/l), susceptible to phage 155 A9C,
and SII biotype and had characteristic immunoblot and DNA fingerprint features.
There was a high amount of colonisation of patients but not staff with this
strain, which was also wide spread in the environment. The control measures led
to rapid resolution of the outbreak and disappearance of the strain from the
unit.
CONCLUSIONS: In areas where coagulase negative staphylococcal infections are
common doctors must be aware of the possibility of cross infection with single
strain, and the availability of more discriminatory methods of typing will
facilitate the identification and control of such episodes.

PMCID: PMC1837150
PMID: 2504407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. BMJ. 1989 Jul 22;299(6693):233-5.

Local bone mineral response to brief exercise that stresses the skeleton.

Beverly MC(1), Rider TA, Evans MJ, Smith R.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Oxford.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 16;299(6701):736-7.
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):569.

OBJECTIVE: To compare grip strength and bone mineral content in the forearm in
women and to test the effects on bone mineral content of short periods of
exercise that stresses the skeleton.
DESIGN: Assessment of both wrists in 69 volunteers and of the non-fractured wrist
in 30 patients followed by an exercise regimen entailing squeezing a tennis ball 
as hard as possible for 30 seconds each day for six weeks.
SETTING: Old people's homes and outpatient departments of Hammersmith and
Northampton general hospitals.
PATIENTS: 99 Women, of whom 69 were volunteers and 30 had a fractured forearm.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Grip strength and bone mineral content after six weeks and 
at six months after the exercises had stopped.
RESULTS: The bone mineral content of the women's forearms was measured with a
densitometer and the grip strength with a semi-inflated bag connected to an
anaeroid barometer. Measurements before exercise showed that the two variables
correlated closely, irrespective of age, and that there were significant
differences in both between the dominant and non-dominant arms of the volunteers.
After six weeks of exercise there was a mean increase in grip strength of 14.5%
(95% confidence interval 9.9 to 19.2%) and in bone mineral content of 3.4% (1.4
to 5.3%) in the stressed forearms of the 77 women who attended for examination.
After six months without exercise the improvements in the 33 women who attended
for follow up had reversed. Women who had had a fractured forearm (n = 13),
however, had continued to gain grip strength and bone mineral content in the arm 
that had not been injured.
CONCLUSIONS: Grip strength in the forearm is a good indicator of bone mineral
content. Both variables may be increased by brief periods of stressful exercise. 
If this principle can be applied to the whole skeleton it may provide a means of 
reversing osteoporosis.

PMCID: PMC1836936
PMID: 2504377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. BMJ. 1989 Jul 22;299(6693):230-3.

Prognosis in diabetic nephropathy.

Parving HH(1), Hommel E.

Author information: 
(1)Hvidore Hospital, Klampenborg, Denmark.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):456-7.
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):566-7.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of long term antihypertensive treatment on
prognosis in diabetic nephropathy.
DESIGN: Prospective study of all insulin dependent diabetic patients aged under
50 with onset of diabetes before the age of 31 who developed diabetic nephropathy
between 1974 and 1978 at Steno Memorial Hospital.
SETTING: Outpatient diabetic clinic in tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: Forty five patients (20 women) with a mean age of 30 (SD 7) years and a
mean duration of diabetes of 18 (7) years at onset of persistent proteinuria were
followed until death or for at least 10 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Antihypertensive treatment was started a median of three (0-13)
years after onset of nephropathy. Four patients (9%) received no treatment, and 9
(20%), 13 (29%), and 19 (42%) were treated with one, two, or three drugs,
respectively. The median follow up was 12 (4-15) years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Arterial blood pressure and death.
RESULTS: Mean blood pressure at start of antihypertensive treatment was 148/95
(15/50) mm Hg. Systolic blood pressure remained almost unchanged (slope -0.01
(95% confidence interval -0.39 to 0.37) mm Hg a year) while diastolic blood
pressure decreased significantly (0.87 (0.65 to 1.10) mm Hg a year) during
antihypertensive treatment. The cumulative death rate was 18% (8 to 32%) 10 years
after onset of nephropathy, in contrast to previous reports of 50% to 77% 10
years after onset of nephropathy. As in previous studies, uraemia was the main
cause of death (9 patients; 64%).
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of diabetic nephropathy has improved during the past
decade largely because of effective antihypertensive treatment.

PMCID: PMC1836921
PMID: 2504376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. BMJ. 1989 Jul 22;299(6693):228-30.

Influence of maternal diet during lactation and use of formula feeds on
development of atopic eczema in high risk infants.

Chandra RK(1), Puri S, Hamed A.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial University of Newfoundland, Janeway Child Health Centre, Canada.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Oct 7;299(6704):896.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of maternal diet during lactation and the use
of formula feeds on the development of atopic eczema in infants at risk.
DESIGN: Mothers who planned to breast feed exclusively were randomly allocated to
either a restricted diet (avoiding milk and other dairy products, eggs, fish,
peanuts, and soybeans) or a diet without restrictions. Mothers who did not plan
to breast feed were randomly allocated to using one of three formula feeds.
SETTING: Child health centre in Canada.
SUBJECTS: 97 Mothers who chose to breast feed and 124 mothers who did not.
INTERVENTIONS: Restricted diet for 49 mothers who breast fed. Casein hydrolysate 
formula, soy milk formula, or cows' milk formula for infants not breast fed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Development of eczema in babies.
RESULTS: Infants were followed up over 18 months and examined for eczema. Eczema 
was less common and milder in babies who were breast fed and whose mothers were
on a restricted diet (11/49 (22%) v 21/48 (48%)). In infants fed casein
hydrolysate, soy milk, or cows' milk 9/43 (21%), 26/41 (63%), and 28/40 (70%),
respectively, developed atopic eczema.
CONCLUSIONS: In families with a history of atopic disease [corrected] mothers who
breast feed should avoid common allergenic foods during lactation. If they choose
not to breast feed a hydrolysate formula should be used.

PIP: To examine the effects of maternal diet during lactation and the use of
formula feeds on the development of atopic eczema in infants at high-risk, a
group of 97 mothers who chose to breastfeed and 124 mothers who did not were
examined at a child health center in Canada. Mothers who chose to breastfeed
exclusively were randomly allocated to either a restricted diet (avoiding milk
and other dairy products, eggs, fish, peanuts, and soybeans) or a diet without
restrictions. Mothers who did not plan to breastfeed were randomly allocated to
the use of 1 of 3 formula feeds. Their choices were either casein hydrolysate
formula, soy milk formula, or cows' milk formula. Infants were followed for over 
18 months and examined for eczema. Eczema was less common and milder in babies
who were breastfed and whose mothers were on a restricted diet (11 of 49 [22%] vs
21 of 48 [48%]). In infants fed the casein hydrolysate formula, soy milk, or
cows' milk, 9 of 43 (21%), 26 of 41 (63%), and 28 of 40 (70%), respectively,
developed atopic eczema. In families with a history of atopic eczema, mothers who
breastfed should avoid common allergenic foods during lactation. If they choose
not to breastfeed, a hydrolysate formula should be used. author's modified
author's modified

PMCID: PMC1836914
PMID: 2504375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):117-24.

Targeted inspiratory muscle training improves respiratory muscle function and
reduces dyspnea in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Harver A(1), Mahler DA, Daubenspeck JA.

Author information: 
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of targeted inspiratory muscle training
on respiratory muscle function, clinical ratings of dyspnea, and perception of
resistive loads in symptomatic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.
DESIGN: Randomized, placebo-controlled trial with an 8-week treatment period.
SETTING: Outpatient pulmonary clinic and pulmonary function laboratory.
PARTICIPANTS: We studied 19 patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, assigning 10 patients to an experimental group and 9 to a
control group.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients in both groups trained for 15 minutes twice each day
using a device that provided breath-to-breath visual feedback of training
intensity. Patients in the experimental group trained at six increasing levels of
inspiratory resistance, whereas the patients in the control group trained at a
constant, nominal level of resistance.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Although there was no statistically discernible
difference in the effects of targeted muscle training on the mean difference in
maximal inspiratory pressures between the two groups (9.83 cm H2O; 95% CI, -7.37 
to 27.03), patients in the experimental group did show a significant increase in 
inspiratory muscle strength (15.03 cm H2O; P = 0.01). Experimental subjects also 
had decreased dyspnea after 8 weeks of training compared with control subjects (P
= 0.003). Improvements in physiologic values and in dyspnea ratings were
correlated. The perception of added resistive loads was not affected by
inspiratory muscle training.
CONCLUSIONS: Targeted inspiratory muscle training may enhance respiratory muscle 
function and reduce dyspnea in symptomatic patients with moderate to severe
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

PMID: 2742247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):112-6.

Daily use of smokeless tobacco: systemic effects.

Benowitz NL(1), Jacob P 3rd, Yu L.

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco General Hospital Medical Center, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare exposure to nicotine and related cardiovascular
effects as well as urinary mutagenicity (a potential marker of systemic
absorption of carcinogenic compounds) during use of oral snuff, chewing tobacco, 
and cigarettes, as desired.
DESIGN: Crossover sequential treatments, balanced-order experimental study.
SETTING: Clinical research center.
PARTICIPANTS: Eight healthy men who regularly smoked cigarettes and had previous 
experience with the use of both oral snuff and chewing tobacco.
INTERVENTIONS: Four 3- or 4-day blocks during which participants used oral snuff,
chewing tobacco, and cigarettes as desired, or abstained from all tobacco.
Concentrations of nicotine and cotinine (the primary metabolite of nicotine),
cardiovascular effects, and urine sodium, catecholamine and mutagenicity were
measured over 24 hours at the end of each treatment block.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Circadian exposure to nicotine and cardiovascular 
effects, including urinary catecholamine excretion, were similar for all forms of
tobacco use. Urine sodium excretion was greater while using smokeless tobacco
than while smoking, probably due to absorption of sodium from the smokeless
tobacco. Urine mutagenicity was markedly increased while smoking cigarettes and
tended to be increased (P less than 0.10) while chewing tobacco but not while
using oral snuff.
CONCLUSIONS: Systemic absorption of nicotine, sodium, and carcinogenic chemicals 
from smokeless tobacco may cause or aggravate human illness in addition to the
known adverse effects on the oral cavity.

PMID: 2742246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):158-67.

Rheumatologic manifestations of infection with human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV).

Kaye BR.

Author information: 
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, California.

PURPOSE: To review the various rheumatologic manifestations of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and to discuss their potential pathogenic 
mechanisms.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: A literature search using MEDLINE (1981 to 88) and Index
Medicus (1981 to 88) and review of references from all identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: All studies and case reports addressing arthritis, myopathies,
vasculitis, the sicca syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, and autoimmune
phenomena in HIV-infected patients are cited.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: The Reiter syndrome and other reactive arthritides are
the commonest arthritides seen in HIV-infected patients. Psoriatic arthritis and 
septic arthritis with opportunistic agents, as well as an articular pain that is 
severe, acute, and intermittent, may also occur with HIV infection. An arthritis 
that may be specific for the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has been
described. Myopathies, especially of a polymyositic type, vasculitis, and the
sicca syndrome are also part of the spectrum of rheumatologic presentation of HIV
infection. Several autoimmune phenomena, such as antinuclear and anticardiolipin 
antibodies, as well as lupus anticoagulant, have been reported in HIV-infected
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The Reiter syndrome, reactive arthritis, polymyositis, and the sicca
syndrome may herald the onset of clinically evident HIV infection. These diseases
and others may also occur in patients with full-blown AIDS. Furthermore, HIV
infection may mimic systemic lupus erythematosus.

PMID: 2662849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):125-8.

Persistent Cryptococcus neoformans infection of the prostate after successful
treatment of meningitis. California Collaborative Treatment Group.

Larsen RA(1), Bozzette S, McCutchan JA, Chiu J, Leal MA, Richman DD.

Author information: 
(1)Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical Center.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Nov 1;113(9):720.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency of persistent Cryptococcus neoformans
infection in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) after
receiving apparently adequate treatment for meningitis.
DESIGN: Blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid were cultured at the conclusion of 
primary therapy to assess the adequacy of treatment.
SETTING: Outpatient clinics at three medical centers.
PATIENTS: Patients had C. neoformans grown in culture from cerebrospinal fluid.
Primary therapy consisted of either 2.0 g of amphotericin B alone; 6 weeks of
combination therapy with flucytosine; or, if flucytosine was poorly tolerated, an
adjusted minimum total amphotericin B dose. To meet criteria for adequate
treatment of meningitis all patients had two sequential cerebrospinal fluid
samples which were culture negative.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Nine of forty-one patients grew C. neoformans from
urine after completion of primary treatment, but none had urinary symptoms. Fungi
were visualized in expressed prostatic secretions in 4 of these patients. One
patient refused further treatment and developed cryptococcemia within 5 weeks.
Three patients received additional amphotericin B; all had persistent funguria
without systemic relapse. Six patients received fluconazole; 4 became urine
culture negative, and 2 had systemic relapse.
CONCLUSION: The persistence of urinary C. neoformans after adequate therapy for
meningitis suggests that the urinary tract (probably the prostate) is a
sequestered reservoir of infection from which systemic relapse may occur.

PMID: 2545124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):154-7.

Clinical course of primary HIV infection: consequences for subsequent course of
infection.

Pedersen C(1), Lindhardt BO, Jensen BL, Lauritzen E, Gerstoft J, Dickmeiss E,
Gaub J, Scheibel E, Karlsmark T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Hvidovre Hospital, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of the clinical course of the primary HIV
infection on the subsequent course of the infection.
DESIGN: Prospective documenting of seroconversion, follow up at six month
intervals, and analysis of disease progression by life tables.
PATIENTS: 86 Men in whom seroconversion occurred within 12 months.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE: Progression of HIV infection, defined as CD4 lymphocyte 
count less than 0.5 X 10(9)/l, recurrence of HIV antigenaemia, or progression to 
Centers for Disease Control group IV.
MAIN RESULTS: Median follow up was 670 (range 45-1506) days. An acute illness
like glandular fever occurred in 46 (53%) subjects. Three year progression rates 
to Centers for Disease Control group IV was 78% at three years for those who had 
longlasting illnesses (duration greater than or equal to 14 days) during
seroconversion as compared with 10% for those who were free of symptoms or had
mild illness. All six patients who developed AIDS had had longlasting primary
illnesses. Three year progression rates to a CD4 lymphocyte count less than 0.5 X
10(9)/l and to recurrence of HIV antigenaemia were significantly higher for those
who had longlasting primary illnesses than those who had no symptoms or mild
illness (75% v 42% and 55% v 14%, respectively).
CONCLUSION: The course of primary infection may determine the subsequent course
of the infection.

PMCID: PMC1837064
PMID: 2569901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):160-2.

Prospective randomised controlled trial of methods of call and recall for
cervical cytology screening.

Pierce M(1), Lundy S, Palanisamy A, Winning S, King J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Practice, United Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):567.

OBJECTIVE: To discover whether systematic methods of call and recall are more
effective than a non-systematic method and to see which of the two systematic
methods was more effective.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised controlled trial over a year.
SETTING: One group general practice.
PATIENTS: 416 Women over 35 eligible for a smear test who had never had a
cervical smear test or in whom a smear test was overdue (previous test more than 
five years before).
INTERVENTIONS: One group received written invitations to have a smear taken. The 
second group had their notes tagged so that the doctor would remind them (when
they attended for another reason) to have a smear test. No special intervention
was made in the third group.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Performance of a cervical smear test during the year of the
study.
RESULTS: 32% (45/140) of the screened group, 27% (39/142) of the tagged group,
and 15% (20/134) of the control group had a smear test during the year. The
percentage of women having a smear test in the screened group was not
significantly different from that in the tagged group, but the percentages in the
two groups were significantly different from that in the control group. Whether a
woman had had a previous smear test significantly affected the uptake of the
invitation to have a smear test independently of the method of invitation.
CONCLUSIONS: The systematic methods of call and recall were more effective than a
non-systematic method. There was no significant difference between the two
systematic methods (sending letters or tagging the notes) at one year.

PMCID: PMC1837038
PMID: 2504359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):148-9.

Risks of AIDS among workers in the "sex industry": some initial results from a
Scottish study.

Thomas RM(1), Plant MA, Plant ML, Sales DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Edinburgh, Morningside Park.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):622-3.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent to which workers in the "sex industry" in
Edinburgh engage in activities with a high risk of infection with HIV.
DESIGN: Cross sectional, single phase survey in which respondents were located by
a non-random method ("snowballing").
SETTING: Research project coordinated by the Alcohol Research Group, Edinburgh.
SUBJECTS: 205 Sex workers (102 male, 103 female) interviewed between July and
December 1988.
END POINT: Strategies to reduce risk of AIDS among people who buy and sell sexual
services.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Data were elicited by a standardised interview
which related to over 300 variables. A fifth of the study group had used drugs
intravenously, and one in 12 reported that they had been found to be seropositive
on HIV testing. Roughly a quarter of the study group sometimes engaged in
unprotected sex with clients for more money, and a similar proportion sometimes
did not seek medical advice even if they had genital or anal symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: People who buy and sell sexual services should be priority targets
for health education and strategies to reduce their risk of AIDS.

PMCID: PMC1837049
PMID: 2504355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):150-3.

Myoclonus associated with treatment with high doses of morphine: the role of
supplemental drugs.

Potter JM(1), Reid DB, Shaw RJ, Hackett P, Hickman PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Nedlands.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Sep 9;299(6700):683-4.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of important side effects in patients with 
malignant disease who were receiving high doses of morphine as part of their
palliative treatment.
DESIGN: Data on patients were collected over 12 months.
SETTING: Two palliative care units in Western Australia.
PATIENTS: 19 Patients with malignant disease who were receiving morphine either
subcutaneously or orally as the main analgesic. 10 Patients receiving a total
daily dose of morphine of at least 500 mg orally or 250 mg parenterally were
enrolled in the study. The other 9 patients were enrolled after an important
problem thought to be related to the morphine had been identified. All of the
patients were taking drugs to supplement the treatment.
INTERVENTIONS: The dose of morphine or route of administration, or both, was
changed in three patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Determination of the prevalence of side effects in the
patients. Assessment of the relation of any side effects with the supplemental
drugs taken by the patients.
MAIN RESULTS: Plasma morphine and electrolyte concentrations were measured and a 
full history taken for each patient. Thirteen of the 19 patients had an important
side effect; 12 of them had myoclonus and one had hyperalgesia of the skin.
Plasma morphine concentrations were similar in patients with and without
myoclonus, ranging from 158 to 3465 nmol/l and 39 to 2821 nmol/l respectively.
Eight of the patients with side effects were taking an antipsychotic drug
concurrently compared with none of those without side effects. A greater
proportion of patients with side effects were taking the antinauseant drug
thiethylperazine (6/13 v 2/6) and at least one non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drug (10/13 v 2/6), whereas a smaller proportion were taking a
glucocorticosteroid (3/13 v 4/6). The estimated prevalence of important side
effects in the total population of patients receiving palliative treatment in the
two units was 2.7-3.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Myoclonus as a side effect of treatment with morphine is more likely
to occur in patients taking antidepressant or antipsychotic drugs as antiemetics 
or as adjuvant agents or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for additional
analgesia. If a patient develops myoclonus the best approach may be to change the
supplemental treatment.

PMCID: PMC1837058
PMID: 2475196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Brain Res. 1989 Jul 10;491(2):253-65.

Production of immunoreactive adrenocorticotropin and beta-endorphin by
hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic brain cells.

Kapcala LP.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine and Hospital,
Baltimore 21201.

Despite many in vivo studies, little is known about brain regulation of POMC
synthesis or regulation of secretion of POMC-related peptides. To test the
hypothesis that dissociated brain cells in culture can produce and release
POMC-related peptides, immunoreactive (IR)-adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and
beta-endorphin were measured in cells and media of dissociated cell cultures
incubated up to 38 days. Fetal rat hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic forebrain
cells were maintained in serum free medium. IR-ACTH and beta-endorphin were
measured by radioimmunoassay in concentrated cells and media after various
incubation times using two ACTH (mid-portion = R4; carboxy-portion directed =
KEND) antisera and a beta-endorphin antiserum. IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin in
hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic cells and in media (cumulative) were greater
than quantities in cells before culture. Peak hypothalamic cellular content of
IR-ACTH (5.3 fmol/10(6) cells-R4; 4.7 fmol/10(6) cells-KEND) and content of
IR-beta-endorphin (32.0 fmol/10(6) cells) occurred on days 16, 9 and 23,
respectively. Peak extrahypothalamic content of IR-ACTH (2.9 fmol/10(6) cells-R4;
1.0 fmol/10(6) cells-KEND) and content of IR-beta-endorphin (10.8 fmol/10(6)
cells) was also seen on different days, was lower than hypothalamic content and
was not always concurrent with peak hypothalamic content. Gel filtration
chromatography revealed that the predominant forms of IR-ACTH and
IR-beta-endorphin in hypothalamic cell extracts co-eluted with synthetic ACTH1-39
and beta-endorphin. Changes in molar ratios of IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin also
suggested a differential regulation of different POMC derivatives.CONCLUSIONS:
(1) IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin are produced by hypothalamic and
extrahypothalamic forebrain cells in culture: and (2) dissociated brain cell
cultures can be used as a potential model for studying regulation of POMC-related
peptides in brain.

PMID: 2548664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. BMJ. 1989 Jul 8;299(6691):91-3.

Is excessive running predictive of degenerative hip disease? Controlled study of 
former elite athletes.

Marti B(1), Knobloch M, Tschopp A, Jucker A, Howald H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of regular long distance running on the state
of the hips in later life.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of a cohort of elite athletes and a group of normal, 
healthy, untrained controls examined 15 years after initial testing.
SETTING: Research project at school for physical education and sports.
SUBJECTS: 27 Former long distance runners (mean age 42), nine former bobsleigh
riders (mean age 42), and 23 normal, healthy, untrained men (mean age 35) who had
been examined in 1973 and who agreed to re-examination in 1988.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Radiological evidence of degenerative hip disease in 1988.
RESULTS: Physiological and exercise characteristics of all subjects had been
recorded in 1973, and in 1988 these measurements were repeated together with
radiological examination of the hips. An additive radiological index of hip
disease based on grades of subchondral sclerosis, osteophyte formation, and joint
space narrowing was significantly increased among runners as compared with
bobsleigh riders and untrained controls. After adjustment for age the significant
effect of type of sports activity remained (p = 0.032). In multivariate analyses 
age and milage run in 1973 (97 km/week) emerged as independent, significant, and 
positive predictors of radiological signs of degenerative hip disease in 1988 (p 
= 0.017 and p = 0.024 respectively). Among runners alone running pace in 1973
rather than milage run was the stronger predictor of subsequent degenerative hip 
disease. The milage run in 1988 was not particularly predictive of the
radiological index, but endurance in 1988 was inversely related to degenerative
hip disease seen radiologically.
CONCLUSION: Long term, high intensity, high milage running should not be
dismissed as a potential risk factor for premature osteoarthritis of the hip.

PMCID: PMC1837113
PMID: 2504343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. BMJ. 1989 Jul 8;299(6691):88-91.

Excess benign melanocytic naevi after chemotherapy for malignancy in childhood.

Hughes BR(1), Cunliffe WJ, Bailey CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, General Infirmary, Leeds.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether children who have had chemotherapy develop increased
numbers of moles.
DESIGN: Blind assessment of patients having chemotherapy and subsequent
comparison with the first suitable patients matched for age and sex who were
attending the clinic during the same period after having completed treatment.
Controls were obtained the following year by taking the first suitable patients
attending a routine dermatology outpatient clinic who matched the study groups
for age and sex.
SETTING: Referrals to a paediatric oncology clinic and a dermatology clinic at
two city hospitals.
PATIENTS: The group receiving chemotherapy comprised all 32 patients with acute
lymphatic leukaemia, lymphoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma who were attending the
paediatric oncology clinic on two mornings a week during October 1987 to March
1988. The group who had completed treatment comprised 32 patients who were
attending for follow up during the same period and who matched the first group
for age and sex. Thirty two other patients attending the dermatology outpatient
clinic with unrelated skin conditions served as controls.
END POINT: Definite increase in numbers of moles on children after a course of
chemotherapy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Moles were counted by one observer on defined
areas of the body and divided into those less than 3 mm and greater than or equal
to 3 mm diameter. Patients receiving chemotherapy had a similar number of moles
to the control group. By contrast patients who had completed chemotherapy had
significant increases both in moles less than 3 mm and greater than or equal to 3
mm and in the total number of moles. These patients were more likely to have
moles on acral sites.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with substantially increased numbers of moles (benign
melanocytic naevi) after successful chemotherapy for malignancy may have an
increased risk of melanoma. They should be offered prolonged surveillance and
cautioned about exposure to ultraviolet light.

PMCID: PMC1837103
PMID: 2504342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. BMJ. 1989 Jul 8;299(6691):81-5.

Risk factors and 25 year risk of coronary heart disease in a male population with
a high incidence of the disease: the Finnish cohorts of the seven countries
study.

Pekkanen J(1), Nissinen A, Puska P, Punsar S, Karvonen MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of high serum cholesterol concentration, raised
blood pressure, and smoking as predictors of coronary heart disease.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study of middle aged men conducted over 25 years.
SETTING: Finish components of an ongoing international study (seven countries
study).
PARTICIPANTS: 1520 Men who at age 40-59 in 1959 were free of clinically evident
heart disease.
INTERVENTIONS: At each follow up visit a detailed medical examination including
resting electrocardiography was performed, blood pressure and serum total
cholesterol concentration were measured, and smoking was assessed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: 825 Deaths (54% of participants) occurred during
follow up, of which 335 were due to coronary heart disease. The hazard ratio for 
death from coronary heart disease with respect to risk factors at entry were: for
serum cholesterol concentrations above 8.4 mmol/l v below 5.2 mmol/l, 2.68 (95%
confidence interval 1.62 to 4.42); for systolic blood pressure in the highest
quintile v that in the lowest quintile, 2.46 (1.72 to 3.50); and for smoking 10
or more cigarettes daily v never smoking, 1.95 (1.36 to 2.79). The hazard ratios 
with respect to cholesterol concentrations and blood pressure remained constant
during follow up but the ratio with respect to smoking diminished, mainly owing
to men giving up the habit. The estimated conditional probability of a 50 year
old man dying of coronary heart disease in the next 25 years ranged from 12%
among those with the most favourable risk factor profile to 75% among those with 
the least favourable profile.
CONCLUSIONS: High risk factor levels (as determined in this study) in middle aged
men may greatly increase the absolute probability of death from coronary heart
disease when the period of study is relevant to the human life span.

PMCID: PMC1837141
PMID: 2504340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. BMJ. 1989 Jul 8;299(6691):104-6.

Attendance and non-attendance for breast screening at the south east London
breast screening service.

McEwen J(1), King E, Bickler G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine, King's College School of Medicine and
Dentistry, London.

OBJECTIVES: To ascertain the reasons for a low rate of response for breast
screening.
DESIGN: All relevant aspects of the organisational process examined, including
general practitioners' notes. Non-responders visited and interviewed.
SETTING: An inner city breast screening service working on the model advocated by
the Forrest report.
SUBJECTS: 288 Women aged 50-64 registered with several general practices and
invited for screening by post.
MAIN OUTCOME: Determination of factors important for success of breast screening 
programmes.
RESULTS: After five women were excluded by their general practitioners the
response rate was 129 out of 283 (46%), but 99 (35%) of the women did not receive
their invitations because of inaccuracies in the family practitioner committee's 
database and general practitioners failing to check women's addresses completely.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased rates of response will depend on enabling general
practitioners to check addresses and on an increased awareness of the importance 
of information.

PMCID: PMC1837095
PMID: 2504314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. BMJ. 1989 Jul 8;299(6691):101-4.

Cervical cytology screening and government policy.

Ross SK.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):458.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the coverage of cervical cytology screening in one general
practice surgery according to the criteria in the new Scottish general
practitioner contract and to explore the difficulties of defining performance in 
such screening.
DESIGN: Review of annual analysis of uptake of screening during 1984-8.
SETTING: Suburban general practice surgery in Glasgow serving 3000 patients.
PATIENTS: All women aged 35-64 registered in 1984 increasing in 1988 to all women
aged 20-64.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Assessment of uptake of smear tests and reasons for smear
not being taken and of the effect of these outcomes on the new general
practitioner contract.
RESULTS: The numbers and percentages of women having a smear test in the previous
five and three years were recorded, and the reasons why a smear was not taken
were defined in the remainder (hysterectomy, test not offered, risk not known,
test declined, patient moved away, and patient unaccounted for). In 1988, 85%
(608/719) of the women aged 30-64 and 80% (693/870) of those aged 20-64 had had a
smear test in the previous five years. An appropriate or irreducible reason for
the lack of a smear test was defined in all the others.
CONCLUSIONS: The population studied contained a substantial number of women in
whom cervical smear was unnecessary, inappropriate, or refused. These factors and
the likely demographic variation in the uptake of smear tests have important
implications for the setting and achieving of the government's targets for
cervical cytology screening.

PMCID: PMC1837094
PMID: 2504313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Am J Dis Child. 1989 Jul;143(7):794-7.

Non-group A streptococci in the pharynx. Pathogens or innocent bystanders?

Hayden GF(1), Murphy TF, Hendley JO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Medical Center, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville 22908.

Comment in
    Am J Dis Child. 1990 Jun;144(6):620-2.
    Am J Dis Child. 1990 Apr;144(4):452-3.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether beta-hemolytic streptococci from groups other
than A are an important cause of sporadic pharyngitis in children.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, case-referent survey.
SETTING: General pediatric clinic at a military base in Ohio.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifty children with symptomatic pharyngitis and 150
controls matched for age and time of presentation over a 20-month study period.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS/MAIN RESULTS: Anaerobic culture technique was used to improve
isolation of beta-hemolytic streptococci. Group A beta-hemolytic streptococci
were detected significantly more often among the ill children than among the
controls (39% vs 16%, respectively). In contrast, non-group A beta-hemolytic
streptococci were isolated in similar frequency from the ill and control children
(17% vs 21%, respectively). Non-group A beta-hemolytic streptococci from groups
B, C, F, and G were each isolated in similar frequency among the ill and control 
children. The isolation rate of non-group A organisms increased with age among
both patients and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-group A beta-hemolytic streptococci seemed not to be an
important cause of sporadic pharyngitis in this pediatric population.

PMID: 2741849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):62-9.

Pulmonary functional impairment from years of arc welding.

Kilburn KH(1), Warshaw RH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Southern California, School of Medicine, Environmental Sciences
Laboratory, Los Angeles.

PURPOSE: The adverse effects of arc welding on pulmonary function have been
previously documented. However, in many of these studies, the effects of welding 
exposure and smoking were not separated. Also, some studies did not adjust for or
ignored the effects of asbestosis on pulmonary function. We assessed the
long-term effects of welding on pulmonary function in welders who had no evidence
of asbestosis on chest radiographs, and adjusted each individual value for
height, age, and years of cigarette smoking.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 226 male construction welders who
had never worked in shipyards. Forced vital capacity (FVC) and flows were
measured by spirometry, chest radiographs were obtained and examined for evidence
of asbestosis using International Labor Office (ILO) criteria, and thoracic gas
volume (TGV) was determined by planimetry. The subjects were also administered an
occupational and respiratory questionnaire. Data on workers with asbestosis (ILO 
profusion 1/0 or greater) and pleural abnormalities were excluded. The mean age
for the 226 subjects without asbestosis was 45 years, mean height was 175.7 cm,
and mean duration of welding was 21.3 years. Pulmonary function measurements are 
presented as mean percentage of predicted (pop) and adjusted for height, age, and
years of smoking.
RESULTS: In 151 current cigarette smokers, mean midflows and terminal flows were 
decreased, FEF25-75 to 93.2 pop and FEF75-85 to 91.2 pop, but FVC, forced
expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and TGV were normal. The 43 nonsmokers
also had reductions in flows but normal FVC and TGV. Flows in both groups were
significantly (p less than 0.05) below those of the referent group. The
regression coefficient was -0.0031 for years of welding and FVC pop, -0.0035 for 
FEV1 pop, and -0.0080 for midflow pop (FEF25-75) (all significant at p less than 
0.05), but the coefficient for FEF75-85 pop was not significant. As calculated
from regression equations, 40 years of welding would reduce FVC to 95.2 pop, FEV1
to 92.2 pop, midflow to 79.2 pop, and FEF75-85 to 81.7 pop.
CONCLUSION: Long-term exposure to welding gases and fumes reduced flows in small 
airways of welders without asbestosis.

PMID: 2787121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):35-9.

Sex hormones and lipoproteins in men.

Kiel DP(1), Baron JA, Plymate SR, Chute CG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence 02903.

PURPOSE: To clarify the conflicting evidence of an association between endogenous
sex hormones and lipoprotein metabolism in men, we examined the relationship
between sex hormone levels, total cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (HDL-C), taking into account the coronary artery disease (CAD) status
of the subjects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sex hormone levels, total cholesterol, and HDL-C were
measured in 67 men with CAD from among 191 consecutive male patients between the 
ages of 25 and 75 undergoing coronary angiography, in 26 men without angiographic
evidence of CAD, and in 55 men who were clinically free of CAD.
RESULTS: There was a consistently positive correlation between total estradiol or
calculated free estradiol and both total cholesterol and HDL-C, which persisted
after adjustment for potential confounders. Total cholesterol was associated with
total testosterone after controlling for age, adiposity, and the presence or
absence of CAD, but not with calculated free testosterone. No association was
noted between total testosterone or calculated free testosterone and HDL-C. A
significant interaction was observed between estradiol and testosterone with
respect to total cholesterol.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates an association between sex hormone levels and
lipoprotein metabolism, specifically between estradiol levels and both total
cholesterol and HDL-C. Unlike most previous investigators, we were able both to
control for the CAD status of our subjects and to consider unbound, biologically 
active hormone levels. In addition, we documented a complex interaction between
endogenous testosterone and estradiol in relation to lipoprotein levels; this
association should be considered in future studies.

PMID: 2787120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):74-80.

Identification of an autoantibody to vascular endothelial cell-specific antigens 
in patients with systemic vasculitis.

Brasile L(1), Kremer JM, Clarke JL, Cerilli J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Albany Medical College, New York.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Oct;89(4):548.

PURPOSE: Although immunologic mechanisms have been postulated in the pathogenesis
of vasculitis, an autoimmune process directed against specific autologous
vascular wall antigens has not been previously documented. We examined the role
of an immunologic response to vascular endothelial cell (VEC) antigens in
patients with vasculitis, because of the observed immunogenicity of VECs in renal
and cardiac allograft recipients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study patients included 21 with systemic vasculitis and
four with hypersensitivity vasculitis. A healthy, normal control group consisted 
of 51 young subjects and 61 older subjects. Thirty-two patients with connective
tissue diseases were also evaluated. The presence of autoantibody to autologous
monocytes and other cell types was determined with previously described standard 
crossmatch techniques. Patient sera exhibiting autoantibody to autologous
monocytes were screened against a panel of allogeneic cells. The cell panel
consisted of concordant T and B lymphocytes, monocytes, and VECs from 16
umbilical cord donors. Sera from four patients were analyzed for specificity to
the vascular endothelium of frozen sections of vessels.
RESULTS: An autoantibody to VEC antigens was detected in 18 of the 21 patients
(86%) with confirmed systemic vasculitis, not of the hypersensitivity type. This 
autoantibody was highly cytotoxic, complement-fixing, and specific for antigens
on the surface of the VEC. Findings on allogeneic VEC panel analysis support the 
existence of multiple allotypes in the VEC antigen system. In three patients,
fluctuations in the titer of the autoantibody generally correlated with clinical 
symptoms. In the four patients screened for the specificity of the autoantibody
to anatomically different cadaveric blood vessels, specific anatomic patterns of 
reactivity were observed. Autoantibody to VEC antigens was not found in young
controls and was documented in low frequency in older controls and in patients
with connective tissue diseases. The autoantibody was seen in one of four
patients (25%) with hypersensitivity vasculitis.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that an autoantibody to VEC antigens may be
involved in the pathogenesis of systemic vasculitis or may be a diagnostic marker
for the disease process.

PMID: 2741984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):70-3.

Treatment of Graves' disease and the course of ophthalmopathy.

Sridama V(1), DeGroot LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Illinois.

PURPOSE: Contradictory results have been obtained with regards to the effect of
various treatment modes on the exacerbation of Graves' ophthalmopathy, probably
because the number of patients in each study was small and some studies were
analyzed only in relation to one type of treatment. To circument these problems, 
we studied the course of Graves' ophthalmopathy after various modes of therapy
for thyrotoxicosis among 537 patients with Graves' disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 537 patients with Graves' disease were
prospectively studied over an 11-year period. Thirty-one patients were lost to
follow-up during the first six months after treatment and were excluded from the 
study. Of those remaining, 426 received one form of treatment, 79 received two
kinds of therapy, and one received three kinds of therapy. Thus, surgical
treatments numbered 164, radioactive iodine-131 (131I) treatments numbered 241,
and medical treatments numbered 182. Ocular signs were considered improved or
exacerbated by the following criteria: decrement or increment of the exophthalmos
of 2 mm or more, improvement or deterioration of visual acuity, and regression or
progression of extraocular muscle involvement causing diplopia.
RESULTS: Among patients who did not have infiltrative ophthalmopathy before
treatment, there was no difference in the occurrence of posttreatment
exophthalmos in the surgically, medically, and 131I-treated patients (7.1%, 6.7%,
and 4.9%, respectively). The incidence and the degree of progression of
ophthalmopathy in patients who already had exophthalmos before treatment were
similar in the medically, surgically, and 131I-treated groups (19.2%, 19.8%, and 
22.7%, respectively). Most of the progression occurred in the posttreatment
euthyroid stage. The incidence of improvement of ophthalmopathy was also similar 
(14.1%, 12.6%, and 12.3% in the medically, surgically, and 131I-treated
patients).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we found no influence of type of therapy for
thyrotoxicosis on the clinical course of Graves' ophthalmopathy in this
retrospective study of 537 patients.

PMID: 2741983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):7-14.

Metabolic and hemodynamic consequences of sodium bicarbonate administration in
patients with heart disease.

Bersin RM(1), Chatterjee K, Arieff AI.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiology Division, University of California Medical Center, San Francisco.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Oct;89(4):549.

PURPOSE: The use of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) in cardiopulmonary arrest has
been questioned, but the effects of NaHCO3 in patients with heart disease are not
known. We therefore prospectively evaluated the effects of NaHCO3 in patients
with congestive heart failure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten patients received NaHCO3 and control infusions of
equimolar sodium chloride (NaCl). Measurements were made of blood gases,
2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG), glucose, lactate, cardiac hemodynamics, and
oxygen consumption.
RESULTS: The arterial oxygen tension (pO2) fell an average of 10 mm Hg after
NaHCO3 administration in patients with congestive heart failure, whereas it rose 
with NaCl (p less than 0.005). Myocardial oxygen consumption decreased by 17% (p 
less than 0.002) without an accompanying change in oxygen demand. Systemic oxygen
consumption fell by 21%. Red blood cell 2,3-DPG levels were elevated at baseline,
but did not change with NaHCO3 administration. The oxygen pressure at 50%
hemoglobin saturation (P50) was correspondingly elevated at baseline in these
patients and decreased significantly with NaHCO3 (Bohr effect) (p less than
0.003). The arterial and mixed venous carbon dioxide tensions increased with
NaHCO3 but decreased with NaCl administration (p less than 0.05). Blood glucose
concentrations fell by 1.7 mmol/L with NaHCO3 (p less than 0.003) and blood
lactate concentrations increased uniformly (p less than 0.001). Three patients
developed net myocardial lactate generation during NaHCO3 administration; two of 
these three developed symptoms of angina. Coronary blood flow did not change with
NaHCO3 but increased with NaCl (p less than 0.04). Two patients developed
transient pump failure.
CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that NaHCO3 impairs arterial oxygenation and
reduces systemic and myocardial oxygen consumption. The decrease in oxygen
utilization is associated with anaerobic metabolism, enhanced glycolysis, and
elevation of the blood lactate level, and may lead to transient myocardial
ischemia in some patients. Thus, the use of NaHCO3 in such patients warrants
re-evaluation.

PMID: 2741982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):48-56.

Exercise and hypoxia increase sickling in venous blood from an exercising limb in
individuals with sickle cell trait.

Martin TW(1), Weisman IM, Zeballos RJ, Stephenson SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Investigation, William Beaumont Army Medical Center, El
Paso, Texas 79920-5001.

PURPOSE: The association between sickle cell trait (SCT) and complications
related to exercise may be explained if exercise-induced sickling interferes with
capillary blood flow and causes tissue ischemia and functional abnormalities. To 
test this hypothesis, we measured sickling and blood gas values in venous and
arterial blood of an exercising limb in subjects with SCT and in controls.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 15 subjects with hemoglobin AS (SCT 
group) and 15 subjects with hemoglobin AA (control group). Each performed two
maximal arm crank exercise tests, one at 1,270 meters and one at simulated 4,000 
meters.
RESULTS: At 1,270 meters, axillary venous sickling increased significantly (p
less than 0.05) from (mean +/- SD) 1.0 +/- 1.0% at rest to 2.3 +/- 2.6% during
peak exercise. At simulated 4,000 meters, sickling increased significantly (p
less than 0.001) from 1.5 +/- 1.2% to 8.5 +/- 7.1%. A wide range of sickling
during peak exercise was observed (1% to 25%). One minute after exercise at
simulated 4,000 meters, venous sickling remained elevated (7.2 +/- 7.8%) despite 
high levels of oxygen saturation. Arterial sickling (less than 1%) was present in
only two subjects. There was no significant difference in oxygen consumption
(29.4 +/- 3 versus 30.7 +/- 4 mL/kg/minute) between the subjects with SCT and the
controls, nor was there a correlation between exercise performance and sickling
(r less than 0.2).
CONCLUSION: We conclude that exercise at 1,270 meters slightly, albeit
significantly, increased sickling in blood from an exercising limb and that
simulated 4,000 meters dramatically potentiated this effect. Sickling in the
effluent blood of an exercising limb does not appear to measurably affect overall
maximal arm crank exercise performance.

PMID: 2741981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):40-7.

Assessment of tissue iron overload by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging.

Johnston DL(1), Rice L, Vick GW 3rd, Hedrick TD, Rokey R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

PURPOSE: The ability of stored intracellular iron to enhance magnetic
susceptibility forms the basis by which tissue iron can be detected by nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging. We used this technique to assess myocardial,
spleen, and liver iron content in patients with known or suspected iron overload 
disorders.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Spin echo NMR images were obtained in 30 patients; 20 had
chronic anemias treated by multiple blood transfusions, five had idiopathic
hemochromatosis, and five had non-hemochromatotic liver disease with elevated
serum ferritin levels and no stainable iron on liver biopsy. The acquisition of
oblique images through the short axis of the left ventricle permitted assessment 
of left ventricular function, while demonstrating the liver and spleen on the
same image. Iron content was assessed using a signal intensity ratio of organ
(spleen, liver, or myocardium) to skeletal muscle.
RESULTS: In patients with multiple blood transfusions, iron content was highest
in liver, followed by the spleen. Significant iron overload was detected in the
myocardium of only one patient. Left ventricular systolic wall thickening was
normal in patients receiving multiple blood transfusions. Two patients with
treated idiopathic hemochromatosis had normal signal intensity ratios, and three 
untreated patients had evidence of significant deposits of iron in the liver and 
spleen as indicated by a reduction in signal intensity ratios (0.2 +/- 0.01 and
0.9 +/- 0.01, respectively). Five patients with non-hemochromatotic liver disease
and high serum ferritin levels had normal signal intensity ratios by NMR imaging.
CONCLUSION: NMR imaging is a useful method of detecting tissue iron and
distinguishing disease due to iron overload. Myocardial iron deposition is a late
event, occurring after accumulation of iron in the spleen and liver.

PMID: 2741980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):28-34.

Pre-arrest morbidity and other correlates of survival after in-hospital
cardiopulmonary arrest.

George AL Jr(1), Folk BP 3rd, Crecelius PL, Campbell WB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Saint Thomas Hospital, Nashville, Tennessee 37202.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Feb;88(2):201.

PURPOSE: Recent reports on the use of in-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation
(CPR) have failed to provide an applicable method to identify patients who have
little chance of surviving CPR. We prospectively evaluated the clinical
characteristics and outcome of 140 consecutive hospitalized patients who had
cardiopulmonary arrest and received CPR, and we propose a method for predicting
survival in this setting.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study period was July 1 through December 31, 1985, and 
the patient population consisted of 91 men and 49 women (age range, 18 to 92
years). We devised a multifactorial scoring system, the Pre-Arrest Morbidity
(PAM) Index, to evaluate pre-arrest morbidity in individual patients.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven (55%) of these patients were successfully resuscitated, 34
(24.3%) were discharged from the hospital alive, and 29 (20.7%) were long-term
survivors (alive three months after discharge). Multivariate analysis of
pre-arrest clinical variables demonstrated a significant association with
mortality for hypotension, azotemia, and age 65 years or older, although none of 
these factors was absolutely predictive of a fatal outcome. The PAM Index was
found to correlate inversely with the frequency of successful resuscitation, and 
the probability of short-term and long-term survival after CPR. Patients with PAM
scores of 7 or greater had an extremely low likelihood of long-term survival
(less than 15%), and no patient with a score of more than 8 survived to
discharge. When the PAM score was considered in multivariate analysis of
pre-arrest variables, it became the only significant independent predictor of
mortality.
CONCLUSION: The PAM Index may be useful in identifying patients in whom CPR may
be ineffective.

PMID: 2741977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):15-21.

Superior efficacy of propranolol versus nifedipine in double-component angina, as
related to different influences on coronary vasomotility.

DeCesare N(1), Bartorelli A, Fabbiocchi F, Folli A, Loaldi A, Montorsi P, Polese 
A, Guazzi MD.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Cardiologia, University of Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE: In 24 patients with stable spontaneous and effort-related angina,
ischemic episodes at rest were not preceded by changes in circulatory variables
(heart rate, systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures) that may raise the
myocardial oxygen consumption. We interpreted these episodes as caused by
critical and reversible coronary flow reduction at the site of a stenotic lesion,
and evaluated the clinical efficacy of nifedipine and propranolol in the
treatment of this condition.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was randomized, placebo-controlled, and crossover
in design. Nineteen of the 24 subjects were men (mean group age, 59 years; range,
47 to 65 years). The study consisted of four four-day periods. The first and the 
fourth periods, during which patients received placebo, were single-blind. The
treatment consisted of 80 mg of propranolol or 20 mg of nifedipine administered
four times daily. The second and the third periods, during which patients
received propranolol or nifedipine crossing over to the alternative drug in the
next period, were double-blind and separated by a 24-hour interval.
RESULTS: Propranolol fully abolished or reduced the number of spontaneous
ischemic episodes in a significantly larger proportion of patients than did
nifedipine; it was also effective in several cases in which nifedipine had failed
or had even caused a paradoxic effect. Quantitative angiographic evaluation of
the influences of nifedipine (Group 1, 12 patients, 10 mg sublingually) and
propranolol (Group 2, 12 patients, 0.1 mg/kg intravenously) on the residual lumen
diameter of one significant coronary stenosis in each patient showed that (1)
after nifedipine, the lumen was unchanged in one, augmented in seven, and reduced
in four cases; (2) variations ranged between +1.59 and -1.2 mm, and their
direction correlated closely with the influence of oral nifedipine on the
episodes of spontaneous ischemia; and (3) in no case did treatment with
propranolol vary the stenosis lumen by more than 0.3 mm.
CONCLUSION: In this form of angina, a number of lesions seem to offer a compliant
substrate for vasomotion and, possibly, for critical changes in flow. The
vasomotor influences of nifedipine on these lesions are variable as well as the
efficacy of the drug on the manifestations of ischemia at rest. Propranolol
produces no important variations of the coronary stenotic lesions, causes a
decrease of heart rate that facilitates coronary flow in diastole, and reduces
the baseline metabolic demand of the heart so that the threshold of ischemia
during critical reduction of coronary flow may become elevated.

PMID: 2741976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):22-7.

Cardiac performance after reduction of myocardial hypertrophy.

Schmieder RE(1), Messerli FH, Sturgill D, Garavaglia GE, Nunez BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ochsner Clinic, New Orleans, Louisiana 70121.

PURPOSE: The current study was performed to assess the functional sequelae of
reducing left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with essential hypertension.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: To analyze left ventricular function and contractility in
patients with essential hypertension after reduction of left ventricular
hypertrophy, 14 patients with essential hypertension and left ventricular
hypertrophy were studied prospectively by echocardiogram (1) before, (2) during, 
and (3) after left ventricular mass had been reduced by antihypertensive therapy 
of 19 +/- 3 months' duration. All drugs were discontinued four weeks before the
first and the third study.
RESULTS: At the time of the third study, arterial pressure had returned to
pretreatment values, and mean, peak, and isovolumetric (but not end-systolic)
wall stress increased, whereas left ventricular mass remained diminished. Despite
the increased pressure load to the heart, myocardial contractility was maintained
or improved after reduction of left ventricular hypertrophy, as indicated by the 
ratio of end-systolic wall stress to end-systolic volume index (p less than 0.02)
and by the relation of fractional shortening to end-systolic wall stress (p less 
than 0.06). End-diastolic volume, an indicator of preload, remained reduced after
therapy (p less than 0.05). As a result, pump function of the left ventricle
improved as shown by an increase in the ejection fraction (p less than 0.05),
fractional fiber shortening (p less than 0.05), and velocity of circumferential
fiber shortening (p less than 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Thus, in patients with essential hypertension, reduction of
myocardial hypertrophy by antihypertensive therapy appears to be beneficial
rather than detrimental to cardiac pump performance.

PMID: 2525877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Am J Med. 1989 Jul;87(1):57-61.

Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma: clinical findings and results of therapy.

Gill PS(1), Akil B, Colletti P, Rarick M, Loureiro C, Bernstein-Singer M, Krailo 
M, Levine AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Southern California School of
Medicine, Los Angeles.

PURPOSE: Kaposi's sarcoma occurs commonly in patients with the acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Kaposi's sarcoma may remain localized or
disseminate to involve visceral organs such as the lungs. Disseminated pulmonary 
involvement, when it occurs, is often fatal. Effective therapy may improve
survival in such patients. We herein report on 20 patients with disseminated
pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty previously untreated patients with pulmonary
Kaposi's sarcoma were identified. All were treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy
consisting of either Adriamycin alone, a combination of Adriamycin, bleomycin,
and vincristine (ABV), or bleomycin and vincristine (BV). The response to therapy
and factors affecting prognosis were analyzed retrospectively.
RESULTS: Twelve (60%) patients showed a favorable response to therapy. The median
survival from the initiation of chemotherapy for the 12 responders was 10 months 
(range: three to 31 + months) versus six months (range: one to 17+ months) for
the non-responders. Eleven of the patients showing a response received ABV or BV 
combination chemotherapy (p = 0.004). Survival was shortened by the presence of
either pleural effusion (p = 0.002), T4 lymphopenia of less than 100/mm3 (p =
0.03), or both at study entry.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma, combination
chemotherapy consisting of ABV or BV is associated with dramatic clinical and
functional improvement. The median survival of 10 months demonstrates the value
of combination chemotherapy in this group of patients.

PMID: 2472743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Angiology. 1989 Jul;40(7):666-70.

Progress of coronary artery disease: compliance to therapy.

Pistevos A(1), Georgiou J, Darsinos I.

Author information: 
(1)Alexandra Hospital, Athens, Greece.

From a sample of 1,824 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at the time of
their interview, 827 males (M) and 251 females (F), had at least one distinct
recurrence of their disease--some type of angina (A) or myocardial infarction
(MI). In these patients, the age and type of CAD at the first and second
manifestations (MSs) were noted, together with the patient's compliance to
prescribed therapy. The first MF of CAD in Ms was A in 61% at the age of 59.4 +/-
10.15 years and MI in 39% at a significantly younger age (54.4 +/- 10.54 years, p
less than 0.001). In Ms with A, the second MF was again A in 39% at the age of
61.4 +/- 10.14 years and MI in 61% at 62.1 +/- 10.2 years. In Ms with MI, the
second MF was A in 85% at 56.5 +/- 10.52 years and MI in 15% at 59.2 +/- 12.0
years. No statistical difference was found between patients with good or poor
compliance to therapy in connection with the time of the second MF as A or MI. A 
significantly lower percentage of MI after A, as the first MF, was found in
patients with good compliance (55%) than in patients with poor compliance (69%, p
less than 0.01). In Fs the first MF was A in 88% at 61.6 +/- 9.82 years and MI in
12% at 58.1 +/- 9.1 years (p less than 0.05). The second MF for all F patients
was MI in 48% at 65.4 +/- 10.02 years, compared with A in 52% at the age of 64.5 
+/- 9.78 years.CONCLUSIONS: In Ms a rather quick (approximately equal to 2.5
years) progression of CAD is expected after its initial MF mainly as A
(approximately equal to 61%), and in these, MI as the second MF is more common in
patients with poor compliance to therapy. In Fs there is a delayed first MF
mainly as A (approximately equal to 90%) and a delayed second MF as A and MI in
equal proportion.

PMID: 2742210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):41-50.

Zidovudine in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and
Kaposi sarcoma. A phase II randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

Lane HC(1), Falloon J, Walker RE, Deyton L, Kovacs JA, Masur H, Banks S, Kirk LE,
Baseler MW, Salzman NP, et al.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1990 Mar 1;112(5):388.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the toxicity, effects on immune function, antitumor 
effects, antiretroviral effects, and pharmacokinetics of zidovudine therapy in
patients with early human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and Kaposi
sarcoma.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
SETTING: National Institutes of Health, a referral-based research institution
(single site).
PATIENTS: Physician-referred volunteer patients with HIV infection, Kaposi
sarcoma, CD4+ lymphocyte counts greater than 0.2 x 10(9)/L, and no systemic
symptoms or history of opportunistic infection. Of 41 patients enrolled, 4 had
not met all entry criteria and were therefore not evaluable.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized to one of four treatment groups for an
initial 12-week treatment period: oral placebo (9 patients); zidovudine, 250 mg
orally every 4 hours (9 patients); zidovudine, 0.5 mg/kg body weight
intravenously every 4 hours (9 patients); and zidovudine, 2.5 mg/kg intravenously
every 4 hours (10 patients). After at least 12 weeks of therapy at their assigned
dose, patients were treated with oral zidovudine, generally 250 mg every 4 hours,
with a mean 42-week follow-up.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Anemia and granulocytopenia were the major
toxicities. Significant increases in platelet counts and declines in serum HIV
antigen and IgG and IgM levels occurred in treated patients. Treated patients
were more likely than those on placebo to clear HIV from the cerebrospinal fluid.
There were no differences in tumor progression or CD4+ or CD8+ lymphocyte counts 
among the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Zidovudine was well tolerated and had antiretroviral activity in
patients with early HIV infection and Kaposi sarcoma but it had no significant
effect on the extent of Kaposi sarcoma or on immune function.

PMID: 2735626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):28-40.

Anticytoplasmic autoantibodies: their immunodiagnostic value in Wegener
granulomatosis.

Nölle B(1), Specks U, Lüdemann J, Rohrbach MS, DeRemee RA, Gross WL.

Author information: 
(1)Klinikum der Christian-Albrechts-Universität, Kiel, Federal Republic of Germany.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine disease specificity and sensitivity of
anticytoplasmic autoantibodies (ACPA) for Wegener granulomatosis, as well as
their value as a marker of disease activity.
DESIGN: Blind analysis of serum samples, retrospective analysis of clinical data 
on patients, and prospective follow-up of a subgroup of patients with Wegener
granulomatosis.
PATIENTS: The study included 277 patients with Wegener granulomatosis (222 with
biopsy-proven disease) and 1657 control patients.
SETTING: University hospital and academic medical center. LABORATORY
INVESTIGATIONS: Analysis of 2653 serum samples from 1934 patients for ACPA.
Antibody detection was by indirect immunofluorescence and a new type of
enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA). Prospective follow-up was on 172
patients with Wegener granulomatosis.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Specificity of ACPA for Wegener granulomatosis
measured by indirect immunofluorescence was 99% (CI, 98.9% to 99.7%) and 98% (CI,
97.4% to 99.2%) by ELISA. Sensitivity of ACPA depended on disease activity and
extent: It was 67% (CI, 38% to 89%) by immunofluorescence and 60% (CI, 32% to
84%) by ELISA for patients with active locoregional symptomatology (n = 15); and 
32% (CI, 14% to 54%) by immunofluorescence and 40% (CI, 21% to 61%) by ELISA for 
patients in full remission after initial locoregional symptoms (n = 25). The
sensitivity was 96% (CI, 89% to 99%) by immunofluorescence and 93% (CI, 86% to
98%) by ELISA for patients with active generalized disease (n = 92). Serial
testing was done; every patient with active generalized disease eventually had at
least one positive serum sample. Sensitivity decreased to 41% (CI, 22% to 62%) by
both immunofluorescence and ELISA for patients in full remission after active
generalized disease (n = 27). Levels of ACPA expressed both as immunofluorescence
titers and ELISA values (U/mL) correlated well with disease activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing for ACPA in serum of patients with Wegener granulomatosis is
valuable for differential diagnosis; furthermore, APCA can be used as a marker to
follow disease activity. A new type of ELISA yielded the same results as indirect
immunofluorescence for the specificity, sensitivity, and correlation with disease
activity of ACPA.

PMID: 2660645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):7-14.

Famotidine therapy for active duodenal ulcers. A multivariate analysis of factors
affecting early healing.

Reynolds JC.

Author information: 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

OBJECTIVE: To identify factors that influence the rate of healing of duodenal
ulcers.
DESIGN: A stepwise multivariable statistical analysis of patients with duodenal
ulcer in a multicenter, prospective, open-label study. Healing was assessed by
endoscopy at 4 or 8 weeks. Antacid use and symptoms were recorded in a daily
diary.
SUBJECTS: Of 135 patients, ages 19 to 86, 50% had a previous duodenal ulcer,
46.7% smoked, and 34.8% had melena or hematemesis.
INTERVENTIONS: Famotidine, 40 mg orally, at bedtime for 4 or 8 weeks depending on
endoscopic evaluation of ulcer healing. Limited antacid use was permitted.
SETTING: Office practices, hospital practices, and university-based medical
centers.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Multivariable analysis identified five independent
predictors present at the time of diagnosis that influenced ulcer healing. The
odds of not healing for each risk factor after simultaneous adjustment of the
other risk factors were as follows: alcohol use, 6.5 (CI, 2.0 to 20.7, P less
than 0.002); ulcer size greater than 10 mm, 4.2 (CI, 1.5 to 11.6, P less than
0.005), bleeding symptoms. 3.5 (CI, 1.2 to 10.2, P less than 0.03); and a
previous duodenal ulcer, 3.1 (CI, 1.05 to 9.0, P less than 0.04). The use of
salicylates or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs before treatment was
associated with an improved odds of healing (adjusted odds ratio, 0.2; CI, 0.1 to
0.9, P less than 0.04). The percentage of patients achieving complete ulcer
healing after 4 weeks of famotidine decreased inversely with the number of risk
factors present, ulcer size, and the quantity of daily alcohol use (P less than
0.001). Fewer than half of those patients who still had severe pain at day 7
achieved healing at 4 weeks (P less than 0.001). In contrast, smoking and 23
other factors had no statistically discernible effect on ulcer healing with
famotidine.
CONCLUSIONS: Five variables present at the time of diagnosis independently
influenced the rate of ulcer healing at 4 weeks: alcohol use, ulcer size,
bleeding symptoms, a previous duodenal ulcer, and previous use of salicylates or 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

PMID: 2567589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):58-70.

Intravenous pyelography: the case against its routine use.

Mushlin AI(1), Thornbury JR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New York.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):541.

PURPOSE: To critically appraise four common uses of intravenous pyelography in
adults.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: We reviewed the literature on the use of intravenous
pyelography for four clinical indications.
STUDY SELECTION: We analyzed the literature to determine the proportion of
intravenous pyelograms producing clinically useful information (yield) in four
clinical situations. The best estimate of its accuracy (sensitivity and
specificity) for associated pathologic findings was determined. The implications 
of using the test on the outcomes of patients and costs were evaluated.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: The yield of significant abnormalities in patients
having prostatectomy is small; intravenous pyelography does not specifically
indicate ureteral obstruction, and is not sensitive or specific enough for
screening for urinary tract malignancies. Many false-positive results, little
benefit, and significant costs can be expected. When used before hysterectomy,
intravenous pyelography does not reduce injury to the ureters, and the yield of
unexpected abnormalities is small. The use of the test to screen for unexpected
anatomic abnormalities in adult women after urinary tract infections has not led 
to improved outcomes or prevention of impaired renal function. Acquired causes of
obstruction will be suggested by the history or physical examination. In
hypertensive adults, intravenous pyelography is not accurate enough in detecting 
renal artery stenosis or in predicting favorable outcomes of renal artery
surgery. Also, large costs are generated by high false-positive rates, and
candidates for successful surgery are not reliably identified.
CONCLUSIONS: Selective use of intravenous pyelography is recommended for patients
before prostatectomy or hysterectomy, in women after urinary tract infections,
and in adults whose hypertension may have a renovascular cause. Use should be
reserved for patients whose history and physical examination raise specific
questions for which this test could provide an answer that would affect
treatment.

PMID: 2500047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):15-21.

Small intestinal structure and function in patients infected with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV): evidence for HIV-induced enteropathy.

Ullrich R(1), Zeitz M, Heise W, L'age M, Höffken G, Riecken EO.

Author information: 
(1)Free University of Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1989 Dec 1;111(11):954.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine small intestinal mucosal structure and function in 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
DESIGN: Prospective, consecutive sample study.
SETTING: Referral-based medical clinics at a municipal and a university medical
center.
PATIENTS: Forty-five HIV-infected patients (44 men, 1 woman) with
gastrointestinal complaints.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients had esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Distal duodenal
biopsy samples were examined morphometrically and by quantitative enzyme
histochemical techniques. Immunohistologic studies were done to determine whether
HIV antigen p24 was present. Biopsy and stool samples were examined for enteric
pathogens and patients were evaluated for malabsorption.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Malabsorption was common in HIV-infected patients.
In 15 of 38 patients mononuclear cells infected with HIV were found in the
mucosa. In 15 of 25 patients there was no detectable lactase (beta-glucosidase)
activity in the duodenal brush border; when measurable, lactase
(beta-glucosidase) activity was decreased (P less than 0.02). Alkaline
phosphatase activity was normal. Crypt depth was greater (P less than 0.05),
villous surface area was slightly smaller, and mitotic figures per crypt were not
different in HIV-infected patients compared with controls. Patients without
additional intestinal infection had a reduced number of mitotic figures per crypt
(P less than 0.05) and normal crypt depth. The reduction in mitotic figures was
most pronounced in patients with mucosal HIV antigen p24.
CONCLUSIONS: The HIV-infected patients with gastrointestinal symptoms show
low-grade small bowel atrophy and a maturational defect in enterocytes, which may
be caused exclusively by HIV. An additional intestinal infection can mask this
mucosal atrophy.

PMID: 2500046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):22-7.

Cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin in advanced and recurrent ovarian germ-cell
tumors. A trial of the Gynecologic Oncology Group.

Williams SD(1), Blessing JA, Moore DH, Homesley HD, Adcock L.

Author information: 
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Group, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of cisplatin-based combination
chemotherapy in patients with advanced ovarian germ-cell tumors.
DESIGN: Nonrandom prospective trial with endpoints of tumor response, results of 
repeat surgical exploration, progression-free interval, and survival.
SETTING: Cooperative university-based cancer study comprising 27 participating
institutions.
PATIENTS: Ninety-seven patients were treated and all were evaluable. Of these, 8 
had dysgerminoma and 89 had other cell types.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received 3 to 4 courses of cisplatin. vinblastine, and
bleomycin (PVB). After chemotherapy, suitable patients had re-staging laparotomy.
Maintenance vinblastine therapy was originally given but was discontinued for all
patients in 1981. Patients with persistent or recurrent disease were treated with
vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) or etoposide plus cisplatin
(EP).
RESULTS: Of 35 patients with tumors other than dysgerminoma who had clinically
measurable disease, 15 (43%; CI, 26% to 61%) had complete responses. Forty of
fifty-six second-look laparotomies (71%; CI, 58% to 83%) revealed no tumor or
mature teratoma. Forty-seven patients are still disease-free and 59 are alive.
The survival rate is 71% (CI, 62% to 89%) and the disease-free rate is 51% (CI,
41% to 62%) at 2 years. Eight patients had durable remissions with second- or
third-line therapy. Seven of eight patients with dysgerminoma are also
disease-free.
CONCLUSIONS: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy is effective for patients with ovarian 
germ-cell tumors, is superior to previous regimens, and will cure a substantial
number of patients.

PMID: 2472080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1339-42.

[Prognostic value of arterial pressure during exertion in hypertensive subjects].

[Article in French]

Gosse P(1), Durandet P, Roudaut R, Broustet JP, Dallocchio M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital cardiologique, CHU de Bordeaux, Pessac.

We reviewed the course of 240 patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension 
whose condition has been initially evaluated between january 1976 and february
1979 with both exercise (bicycle) and casual BP. Their outcome was evaluated in
the first months of 1988. Thirty-eight patients were lost to follow up. The
remaining 202 patients (67 p. 100 males, mean age at entry 43 +/- 13 years, mean 
casual BP at entry 161 +/- 25/98 +/- 15) had a mean follow-up of 9.5 +/- 2 years.
Events retained for the analysis were myocardial infarction (n = 12), angina
pectoris with positive coronarography (n = 8), stroke (n = 8), cardiac failure (n
= 2) and sudden death (n = 3). We performed a stepwise discriminant analysis
first with only casual and end exercise systolic and diastolic BP, then after
introducing age, overweight (Lorentz's formula), duration of hypertension,
Sokoloff index and cholesterolemia.RESULTS: the analysis with only BP shown that 
end exercise BP was the best predictor of outcome with 64 p. 100 of the subjects 
correctly classified (CC). After introducing the other risk factors, the
significantly discriminant variables were 1) overweight (65 p. 100 CC) 2) age, 3)
end exercise systolic BP, 4) cholesterolemia. These 4 variables adequately
classified 70 p. 100 of the subjects. Another analysis was performed in patients 
with maximal exercise test and gave the following results: 1) overweight, 2)
cholesterolemia, 3) end exercise systolic BP with 77 p. 100 patients CC. In
women, the pronostic value of exercise BP seems less important than in
men.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2510670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1233-5.

[Iodo-methyl norcholesterol scintigraphy in the localization of primary
hyperaldosteronism].

[Article in French]

Khalil SA(1), Julien J, Pagny JY, Jeunemaitre X, Bouarfa N, Plouin PF, Corvol P.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hypertension artérielle, hôpital Broussais, Paris.

The aim of the study was to investigate the accuracy of iodomethyl
norcholesterol, a new adrenal isotopic scanning agent, in the strategy of
aldosteronism localization. Among 1499 patients examined in the clinic in 1987,
49 presented with primary aldosteronism. Nine were explored by adrenal
scintigraphy (SCI). Mean age was 50 +/- 10 ans, blood pressure was 188 +/- 26/110
+/- 17 mmHg. Initial serum kalemia was 3.2 +/- 0.4 mMol/l, urinary potassium 67
+/- 39 mMol/d; standing plasma active renin was 9.9 +/- 5.0 pg/ml (20 less than N
less than 50), supine plasma aldosterone was 316 +/- 200 pg/ml (50 less than N
less than 150) and aldosterone excretion rate was 49 +/- 27 microgr/day (N less
than 17). Adrenal CT-scan correctly predicted unilateral adenoma in 7 patients
(size from 5 to 15 mm). CT-scan was negative twice. Adrenal vein aldosterone
sampling and phlebography confirmed adenoma in the 8th patient. 7 patients
underwent surgery, with pathological confirmation of the diagnosis. The diagnosis
of adrenal hyperplasia (AH) was made in the 9th patient. (table; see text) When
compared to CT-scan, SCI is unuseful if a tumor (greater than or equal to 10 mm) 
is detected on CT-scan (2 SCI false-negative/5 CT-scan tumors). At the opposite, 
when CT-scan is negative, SCI localizes 2 tumors in 4 patients (2
adenomas).CONCLUSION: SCI should not be used as first step diagnosis procedure in
the localization of primary aldosteronism.

PMID: 2510654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1185-9.

[Physical properties of the aorta in normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic
subjects. Study using Doppler echocardiography].

[Article in French]

Paillole C(1), Dahan M, Jaeger P, Passa P, Gourgon R.

Author information: 
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital Bichat, Paris.

We studied 16 normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients (D) (11 males + 5 
females) aged of 25-51 years old (mean = 35 +/- 6) with a good glycemic control, 
without microangiopathy and previous heart disease and 16 healthy control of 25
subjects (C) matched for sex age and body area. We measured: Systolic blood
pressure (SBP) with a mercury sphygmomanometer, aortic diameter (AD), end
diastolic left ventricular radius (r) and wall thickness (Th) by Echocardiography
TM with 2 D echo control, the pulse wave delay (PWD) by measurement of time
between the feet of aortic velocity tracings, recorded in the isthmus and near
the diaphragm, Sternal length (L). Parameters calculated were: the ratio th/r.
The pulse wave velocity PWV = L/PWD and the ratio PWV/AD which represents an
indirect index of aortic characteristic impedance. (table; see text) PWV and the 
radio Th/r are significantly increased in diabetic patients as compared to the
control group. Th/r is not significantly correlated with PWV in the 2 groups.
This lack of correlation could be explained in the control group by the small
rang of values of PWV (5-7.3 ms-1) and Th/r (0.26-0.38). It is not the case in
the diabetic group where values are widespread (PWD 5-10 ms-1 and Th/r
0.23-0.53).IN CONCLUSION: in normotensive young insulin-dependent diabetic
patients studied by doppler echocardiography: aortic rigidity measured by the
pulse wave velocity is increased. Th/r ratio is also increased but this change of
left ventricular geometry is not related to aortic rigidity in this group of
patients.

PMID: 2510647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1163-8.

[Protective action of cicletanine on the vascular walls in stroke-prone
spontaneously hypertensive rats].

[Article in French]

Ruchoux MM(1), Droy-Lefaix MT, Bakri F, Berthet P, Bosquet D, Lhuintre Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'anatomie pathologique, CHU Bretonneau, Tours, France.

In previous works, cicletanine has proven a protective effect on tissues in
stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. The mechanism by which cicletanine 
lessens the tissue lesion incidence may be explained by the direct vascular
effect of increased prostacyclin synthesis and by interaction with various agents
mobilizing intracellular. Ca2+ ions. Histological so as to ultrastructural
studies of the capillaries and small arteries were performed, specially on those 
of brain, kidney, heart, and choroid. Method : 36 SHR-SP/A 3N Iffa Credo rats
aged 11 weeks were divided into 3 groups. Their drinking water was added with 1
p. 100 NaCl in. Group I was a control group, groups II and III were orally
treated with cicletanine, respectively 100 and 150 mg/Kg. Systolic blood
pressure, body weight, survival were reported. After 7 weeks of treatment the
surviving rats were sacrificed.RESULTS: the control group arterioles showed
endoluminal debris with intimal proliferation and a large disorganisation of the 
media with adventitial fibrosis. The treated groups only showed a slight oedema
of the subendothelial space in ultrastructure with no intimal proliferation and
no muscle coat disorganisation or proliferation.
CONCLUSION: even though the decrease in blood pressure turned out to be very
unimportant, the amount of lesions in vessels was striking even when treatment
had been started on a already high blood pressure. The vessel walls only
presented the impairments usually observed in early arterial response to
hypertension. This study shows that cicletanine, due to its properties to
increase PG12 synthesis and counterbalance the increase of cytosolic free Ca2+,
improves the normal course of hypertensive vascular lesions in the SHR-SP.

PMID: 2510643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1147-51.

[Vegetative neuropathy and pressure regulation in diabetics].

[Article in French]

Chanudet X(1), Bauduceau B, Ritz P, Jolibois P, Garcin JM, Larroque P, Gautier D.

Author information: 
(1)Service de médecine interne et pathologie cardio-vasculaire, Ecole du Val de
Grâce, hôpital militaire Bégin, Saint-Mandé.

The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of autonomic
cardiovascular neuropathy (ACN) on blood pressure control in diabetic
patients.METHODS: a nyctohemeral blood pressure (BP) monitoring (Spacelabs 5200) 
and an assessment of ACN, graded with a scoring system depending on usual test
(Valsalva maneuver, heart response to deep breathing, blood pressure response to 
standing up and sustained handgrip) were performed in 90 normotensive male
subjects. Thirty controls, age: 49 +/- 13 years, weight: 72 +/- 12 kg, height:
174 +/- 6 cm and 60 diabetic patients, type 1 or 2, age: 52 +/- 13 years, weight:
75 +/- 12 kg, height: 174 +/- 6 cm were recruited.
RESULTS: mean BP levels recorded on 24 hours (control: 117 +/- 13/75 +/- 9 mmHg, 
diabetic: 119 +/- 12/74 +/- 7 mmHg), BP variability measured with the coefficient
of variation (SD/mean) (control: syst = 13 +/- 4, diast = 15 +/- 4; diabetic:
syst = 12 +/- 3, diast = 14 +/- 4), differences between mean BP on day-time (9
a.m. - 8:30 p.m.) and mean BP on night-time (10:30 p.m. - 7:30 a.m.) (control:
syst = 16 +/- 10 mmHg, diast = 11 +/- 8 mmHg; diabetic: syst = 13 +/- 10 mmHg,
diast = 10 +/- 7 mmHg) are not statistically different. It is the same with heart
rate. Two control and 11 diabetic subjects have impaired ACN tests. Among
diabetic subjects, impairment of autonomic nervous cardiovascular system is
correlated with abnormal BP pattern (loss of nocturnal fall, paradoxical
nocturnal rise seen in 15 patients).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2510641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1093-7.

[Detection of silent ischemia in hypertensive subjects with high vascular risk
using continuous electrocardiogram in real time].

[Article in French]

Nguyen LD(1), Julien J, Abir SK, Jeunemaître X, Azizi M, Plouin PF, Corvol P.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hypertension artérielle, hôpital Broussais, Paris, France.

To assess the prognostic value of ECG repolarisation abnormalities (negative T
wave and/or ST downslopping (STD) less than 0.1 mV) in systemic hypertension, we 
compared the frequency of STD greater than or equal to 0.1 mV and greater than 40
s (Qmed real-time ambulatory ECG system) in asymptomatic high-risk hypertensive
men with or without ST-T abnormalities on resting ECG (less than or equal to 0 T 
wave and less than 1 mm ST downslopping). Among 68 hypertensive patients in the
upper quintile of risk distribution according to the Paris prospective study, 32 
were R+ and 36 R-. Mean age (R+ 53, R- 53 yrs), blood pressure (R+ 180/106, R-
175/102 mmHg), body-mass index (R+ 27, R- 28 kg/m2) risk score (R+ 5.8, R- 5.4), 
and Sokolow index (R+ 2.7, R- 2.5 mV) were similar in both groups. Left
ventricular mass index was different (R+ 152, R- 118 gr/m2, p less than 0.02).
Mean recording duration was 35 hours. Eighty-nine episodes of STD were detected
in 7 R+ patients (lasting 3 to 136 mn) and one R- patient (lasting 60 s), p less 
than 0.001. Echographic LVH was present in the 7 positive patients of the group
R+. 6 patients underwent thallium scanning and/or coronary angiography: thallium 
was positive in 4 patients; coronary artery angiography was performed in 3
patients, showing bitroncular stenosis in 1 patient.CONCLUSION: in the present
group of high-risk asymptomatic hypertensive patients, the frequency of STD was
higher (p = 0.05) in the presence of repolarisation abnormalities on the resting 
ECG. STD suggests silent ischemia and could account for the excess of
cardio-vascular mortality connected with ST-T abnormalities in hypertension.

PMID: 2510636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1033-7.

[Determination of physiologic disturbances due to rotating shift schedules using 
ambulatory measurement of the arterial pressure].

[Article in French]

de Gaudemaris R(1), Chau NP, Ruche E, Pelen O, Mathern G, Siché JP, Perdrix A,
Mallion JM.

Author information: 
(1)Service de consultation d'hypertension artérielle, RCH, Grenoble.

Technological progress has led to the creation of jobs requiring minimal physical
labor, high mental concentration, and rotating shift schedules. This study
evaluates the physiological effects of rotating shift work on the cardiovascular 
system.METHODS: blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were recorded automatically
(Spacelabs) under ambulatory conditions over a 24 h period in 15 quality control 
technicians at a chemical factory, during each one of their 3 shifts: morning (4 
am-12 noon), afternoon (12 noon to 8 pm) and night (8 pm to 4 am).
RESULTS: mean Bp and HR did not differ significantly between the 3 shifts when
the work period was taken into account. (table; see text) Activity appears to
prevail over circadian rythm and to determine BP and HR levels. Techniques using 
chronological series analysis which take BP variability into account (Fourier
harmonic transformations) show that night work considerably modifies the modes of
BP and HR variation (going to sleep, waking-up, variability at work).
CONCLUSION: BP and HR measurement provide a pratical approach to the analysis of 
physiological disturbances induced by rotating shift work in employees with
mentally demanding jobs.

PMID: 2510627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. BMJ. 1989 Jul 1;299(6690):13-6.

Change in cough reflex after treatment with enalapril and ramipril.

McEwan JR(1), Choudry N, Street R, Fuller RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To find out whether enalapril or ramipril causes the sensitivity of
the cough reflex to change or symptomatic cough to develop in patients with
hypertension.
DESIGN: Prospective, placebo controlled, double blind, randomised crossover
study.
SETTING: Academic units of clinical pharmacology and medicine.
PATIENTS: 20 Patients (nine men and 11 women) who needed to take angiotensin
converting enzyme inhibitors to control hypertension.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients received enalapril 10 mg daily, ramipril 10 mg daily,
or placebo daily for one week in random order, with a washout period of at least 
one week between treatments. For assessment of sensitivity of the cough reflex
the patients inhaled various concentrations of capsaicin solution in random
order.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Measurement of the doses of capsaicin required to cause
two or more and five or more coughs or the development of a symptomatic cough.
RESULTS: Blood pressure, symptoms of cough, and the sensitivity of the cough
reflex to inhaled capsaicin were recorded at the start of the study and before
and at the end of each treatment period. Plasma urea and creatinine
concentrations and angiotensin converting enzyme activity were measured at the
start of the study and the end of each treatment period. Data were analysed by
two way analysis of variance. Mean blood pressure was 159/97 mm Hg at the start
of the study and 152/92, 143/88, and 147/86 mm Hg after treatment with placebo,
enalapril, and ramipril respectively. Mean (SE) plasma angiotensin converting
enzyme activity was 2.2 (0.2) mmol/l/h after treatment with placebo and fell
significantly to 1.3 (0.1) mmol/l/h and to 0.4 (0.1) mmol/l/h after treatment
with enalapril and ramipril respectively. No patient complained of cough while
taking placebo but three women complained of cough when taking both enalapril and
ramipril. The mean (95% confidence interval) lowest dose of capsaicin causing two
or more coughs was 2.4 (1.5 to 4.0), 1.8 (1.12 to 2.82), and 2.2 (1.7 to 3.0)
nmol after treatment with placebo, enalapril, and ramipril respectively; none of 
these changes were significant. The lowest dose of capsaicin causing five or more
coughs was 18.9 (13.9 to 25.8), 14.4 (8.4 to 24.5), and 15.3 (10.8 to 21.2) nmol 
respectively; none of these changes were significant. The three patients who
complained of cough had normal sensitivity to capsaicin after treatment with
placebo but had a considerably increased sensitivity after treatment with
enalapril and ramipril.
CONCLUSIONS: Both enalapril and ramipril increase the sensitivity of the cough
reflex appreciably in patients who complain of cough during treatment, but they
do not change the se

PMCID: PMC1836998
PMID: 2547470  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. BMJ. 1989 Jul 1;299(6690):16-8.

Accuracy in clinically evaluating pigmented lesions.

Curley RK(1), Cook MG, Fallowfield ME, Marsden RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, St George's Hospital, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 5;299(6695):390.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the ability of three doctors experienced in managing
melanocytic lesions to diagnose correctly melanoma, dysplastic naevi, and various
benign pigmented lesions.
DESIGN: Independent clinical evaluation and histopathological assessment.
SETTING: Pigmented lesion clinic, which patients attend without an appointment
for early diagnosis of melanoma.
PATIENTS: 86 Patients with lesions that were judged to be benign by at least one 
of the three doctors.
INTERVENTIONS: The lesions were excised under local anaesthesia and sent for
histopathological examination in coded bottles without clinical details.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Comparison of clinical with histopathological diagnosis for
each lesion.
RESULTS: A total of 120 lesions were evaluated by at least two of the three
doctors. The histopathological diagnoses were made by the same pathologist. The
overall sensitivity (diagnostic accuracy) for the three doctors for all types of 
lesion was 50%. Of the 39 dysplastic naevi, only 19 were identified correctly by 
all observers, and a further 24 banal lesions were wrongly diagnosed as
dysplastic by at least one doctor. Particular difficulty was experienced with
small (less than 5 mm), flat lesions, which can be banal or potentially
malignant.
CONCLUSIONS: Critical diagnosis and management decisions concerning pigmented
lesions should always be based on a combination of clinical and histopathological
assessments and the history of the patient.

PMCID: PMC1837000
PMID: 2503192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. G E N. 1989 Jul-Sep;43(3):173-6.

[Ultrasound, computed tomography and laparoscopy. Efficacy in the detection of
primary and metastatic hepatic tumors. Comparative study].

[Article in Spanish]

Gumina C(1), Monserat R, Bronstein M, Salazar J, Isern AM, Fernández C, Salomón
M, Palao R, Garnica E, Sánchez MJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Oncológico Padre Machado, Caracas, Venezuela.

OBJECT: To compare ultrasound, computed tomography and peritoneoscopy in the
diagnosis of primary and metastatic hepatic tumors.
DESIGN: Prospective trial of a cohort patients during a year.
PLACE: Digestive Disease Department in a National referral Cancer Center.
PATIENTS: Forty five patients with intraabdominal tumors for pretreatment
evaluation. Intervention; Ultrasonography, computed tomography and peritoneoscopy
performed in a period of ten days.
MEASUREMENTS: sensibility, specificity and efficiency comparison of results by
Chi square test, with Yates correction (X2 Yates), measure of pre test and post
test probabilities using Bayes theorem.
RESULTS: In hepatic humors, peritoneoscopy was the most sensitive, specificity
was similar for the three procedures (p greater than 0.1), in the detection of
hepatic metastases peritoneoscopy was the most sensitive 91.6% vs 50% (p less
than 0.05) similar specificity and high positive predictive value for the three
procedures, comparable with the post test probabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: In the detection of focal hepatic lesions, peritoneoscopy was the
best method; in case of doubt, failure of non invasive procedures or the need of 
biopsy samples must be considered the procedure of choice.

PMID: 2535596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


489. G Ital Cardiol. 1989 Jul;19(7):567-79.

[Arrhythmologic study of 50 patients with arrhythmogenic disease of the right
ventricle: prognostic implications].

[Article in Italian]

Bettini R(1), Furlanello F, Vergara G, Durante G, Bertoldi A, Visonà L, Dal Forno
P, Camin G, Burelli C, Nicolosi GL, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Divisione di Cardiologia e Centro Aritmologico, Ospedale di Trento.

Arrhythmogenic right ventricular disease is a syndrome which involves a wide
spectrum of anatomo-clinical features. It is characterised by different levels of
right ventricle anomaly, and by life-threatening "right" hyperkinetic ventricular
arrhythmias. Fifty consecutive pts were retrospectively examined at the
Arrhythmological Centre in Trento between 1977 and 1988. The results of rigorous 
arrhythmological, echocardiographic and angiographic criteria showed that all pts
were affected by arrhythmogenic right ventricular disease.CASE STUDY: 39/50 (78%)
males, 11/50 (22%) females; age 30.6 years (11-78) at the time of the first
study.
METHODS: clinical history in 50/50 pts, electrocardiogram in 50/50 pts, Holter
monitoring in 50/50 pts, ergometric test in 49/50 pts, non-invasive analysis
using signal-averaging QRS in 17/50 pts, 2D echocardiogram in 50/50 pts,
angiography in 38/50 pts, electrophysiological endocavitary study in 35/50 pts.
RESULTS: familial 2/50 (4%); 1/50 (2%) was in class II NYHA; first arrhythmia at 
24.6 years (8-60); most severe arrhythmia at 27.7 years (9-74). Forty-three out
of fifty patients (86%) were symptomatic for arrhythmias: 28/50 (56%) as a result
of stress; 20/50 (40%) had life-threatening symptoms; 6/50 (12%) had aborted
sudden death. Arrhythmogenic right ventricular disease was "localized" in 42/50
(84%) and "diffused" in 8/50 (16%) and was associated with anomalies of the left 
ventricle in 30/50 (60%). Electrocardiogram showed: right bundle branch block in 
10/50 (20%), negative T wave on the right precordial leads in 19/50 (38%),
delayed ventricular potentials in 4/17 (23.5%). Using the electrocardiogram,
Holter monitoring and electrophysiological endocavitary study the following were 
documented: a) clinical ventricular tachycardia in 40/50 (80%): non-sustained
ventricular tachycardia in 10/50 (20%), sustained ventricular tachycardia in
30/50 (60%); b) electrically induced ventricular tachycardia in 26/35 (74.2%):
non-sustained ventricular tachycardia in 8/35 (22.8%), sustained ventricular
tachycardia in 18/35 (51.4%) (clinical sustained ventricular tachycardia in
18/18); c) multiform ventricular tachycardia in 12/50 (24%) (diffused
arrhythmogenic right ventricular disease in 3/12 and associated anomalies of the 
left ventricle in 11/12); d) pleomorphic sustained ventricular tachycardia in
9/30 (30%) (diffused arrhythmogenic right ventricular disease in 2/9, and
associated anomalies of the left ventricle in 8/9). Forty-two out of fifty
patients (84%) underwent antiarrhythmic treatment. When the study was carried out
6.6 years (1 month-22 years) had passed since the first symptom; follow-up was
2.1 years (1 month-11 years) while the interval between the first symptom and the
last check-up was 8.4 years (1-30 years); 2/50 dropped out and 2/50 died
suddenly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2806788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Int Disabil Stud. 1989 Jul-Sep;11(3):108-9.

Use of disablement resettlement officers by patients with musculoskeletal
disorders.

Storey GO(1), Scott DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: to define the use of disablement resettlement officers (DRO) by
patients with locomotor disorders.
DESIGN: questionnaire for patients with locomotor disorders potentially
handicapping them from obtaining work.
SETTING: outpatient clinics.
PATIENTS: 52 patients, capable of work, aged 55 years or less, with a locomotor
disorder; 19 had chronic arthritis and 18 back disorders. QUESTIONNAIRE: obtained
details of diagnosis, work status, contact with DRO and results of referral.
RESULTS: 21 had seen the DRO and three of these were dissatisfied; 15 were
referred to the DRO and only three were placed in employment; 16 did not want
referral to the DRO; overall 60% were unemployed.
CONCLUSIONS: Many patients are reluctant to see the DRO. Only a minority either
attend or find work on referral. A modified system is needed to improve the
employment prospects of patients with locomotor disorders.

PMID: 2634676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1989 Jul-Aug;30(4):533-7.

Relation of serum lipoproteins and lipids to the ABO blood groups in patients
with intermittent claudication.

Hørby J(1), Gyrtrup HJ, Grande P, Vestergaard A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology and Vascular Surgery H, University of Copenhagen, Gentofte 
Hospital, Hellrup, Denmark.

In the present study we investigated the serum lipoprotein and lipid levels in
patients with intermittent claudication (n = 66), divided according to their
blood groups in the ABO system (bloodtype A, n = 40 and bloodtype "non-A", n =
26). We again found the expected predominance of blood type A (61%). However, we 
found no significant differences in any of the biochemical variables between
patients belonging to blood group A and "non-A". Fifty-seven of the patients had 
arteriographies done and the arteriograms were evaluated blindly by a radiologist
according to occlusive and stenotic atherosclerotic lesions. However, as
previously suggested by other investigators, we were not able to demonstrate any 
significant differences between the number of occlusions and stenotic lesions
when dividing the patients into blood group A and "non-A". The biochemical
differences between patients with either occlusive or stenotic atherosclerotic
lesions were also tested and found without any significance.IN CONCLUSION: the
serum lipoprotein and lipid levels in the present study do not give an obvious
explanation, why patients with blood group A seem more liable to develop
atherosclerosis than those with blood group "non-A".

PMID: 2777860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):277-83.

How do women compare with internal medicine residents in breast lump detection? A
study with silicone models.

Fletcher SW(1), O'Malley MS, Pilgrim CA, Gonzalez JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill 27599-7300.

OBJECTIVE: Manufactured silicone breast models were used to compare the accuracy 
of breast examination by 300 women and 62 internal medicine residents.
DESIGN: The study design was cross-sectional.
SETTING: The study took place in two teaching-hospital general medicine clinics.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: Women were continuing care patients, ages 40 to 68, with
no current breast complaint; 300 of 467 (66%) randomly selected women
participated. Physicians were internal medicine residents with at least one-half 
day per week of ambulatory care practice; 62 of 64 (97%) participated.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Sensitivity equalled the percentage of 18 lumps
correctly detected in examination of six silicone breast models. Specificity
equalled the percentage of six models examined without a false-positive
detection. Women's sensitivity was lower than physicians' (40% vs. 58%), but
their specificity was higher (66% vs. 52%). For both women and physicians,
sensitivity varied according to lump size, hardness, and depth, with women's
sensitivity lower than physicians' for each characteristic. Examination duration 
was the technique most strongly and consistently related to accuracy. Physicians 
spent more time examining models than did women (2.5 vs. 2.1 minutes per model). 
For both groups duration related positively to sensitivity (r = 0.46, women;
0.55, physicians) and negatively to specificity (r = -0.35, women; -0.59,
physicians). After adjusting for differences in technique, women's sensitivity
remained lower than physicians', whereas specificity generally remained higher.
The sensitivity of physicians with prior tactile experience with breast lumps was
higher than that of physicians without such experience (60% vs. 51%, p = 0.01).
Too few women (2%) had prior tactile experience to permit analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Women's and physicians' breast examination accuracies differ, but
for the two groups accuracies vary similarly by lump characteristics and
examination technique. Programs to improve breast examination should focus on
specificity as well as sensitivity. Training that includes tactile experience may
be important.

PMID: 2788213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):309-12.

Gender differences in the clinical competence of residents in internal medicine.

Day SC(1), Norcini JJ, Shea JA, Benson JA Jr.

Author information: 
(1)American Board of Internal Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.

OBJECTIVE: To study the differences between cognitive and noncognitive skills of 
men and those of women entering internal medicine.
DESIGN: Comparison of program directors' ratings of overall clinical competence
and its specific components and pass rates for men and women taking the
Certifying Examinations in Internal Medicine in 1984-1987.
PARTICIPANTS: 14,340 U.S. and Canadian graduates taking the Certifying
Examinations of the American Board of Internal Medicine for the first time in
1984-1987.
MEASUREMENTS/RESULTS: Average program directors' ratings of overall competence
were 6.70-6.78 for men and 6.60-6.71 for women. The greatest differences in
ratings of specific components of competence were in the areas of medical
knowledge and procedural skills, where men were rated higher than women, and
humanistic qualities, where women were rated higher than men. Pass rates were
stable over the four years of the study, and ranged from 85 to 86% for men and
from 79 to 81% for women. Men consistently performed slightly better than women
regardless of the type of residency or quality of medical school attended.
CONCLUSIONS: Small but consistent differences were found in the performances of
men and those of women completing training in Internal Medicine as measured by
program directors' ratings and ABIM Certifying Examination performances.

PMID: 2760701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):300-3.

The autopsy: its role in the evaluation of patient care.

Pelletier LL Jr(1), Klutzow F, Lancaster H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kansas School of Medicine,
Wichita.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether autopsies improve the detection of major clinical
errors.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review of all deaths for a 30-month period to detect 
major clinical errors when a correct diagnosis and institution of proper therapy 
would have prolonged the patient's life, with comparison of autopsied patients
with those without an autopsy.
SETTING: Small government hospital inpatient medical service.
PATIENTS: 335 consecutive deaths with 141 [42%] autopsies.
MAIN RESULTS: Review of the clinical records of cases without autopsy led to the 
discovery of only two major clinical errors [1%], whereas 19 major clinical
errors [13%] were detected in autopsy cases. Three of the 19 errors in autopsy
patients would have been detected by chart review alone. Thirteen of the 19
clinical errors in autopsied patients were related to infections that were missed
or were not treated appropriately because of misdiagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Autopsies continue to reveal unanticipated and important information 
that is essential for internal medicine residency training and for the evaluation
of the quality of medical care.

PMID: 2760699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):296-9.

Physician recognition of ophthalmoscopic signs of open-angle glaucoma: effect of 
an educational program.

Margolis KL(1), Money BE, Kopietz LA, Rich EC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55415.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a short educational intervention instructing primary care 
physicians in the recognition of glaucomatous changes of the optic disc.
DESIGN: Comparison of performances on a pretest and a posttest consisting of
fundus slides in color.
SETTING: Educational conferences at two university-affiliated teaching hospitals 
and one staff-model health maintenance organization.
SUBJECTS: Thirty-six internal medicine residents and ten practicing internists.
INTERVENTION: A 20-minute slide/narration educational program, which covered
diagnostic criteria for open-angle glaucoma, normal and abnormal optic disc
anatomy, and funduscopic signs of open-angle glaucoma.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Following the intervention, residents showed
improved sensitivity (0.76 to 0.88, p = 0.007), specificity (0.65 to 0.88, p less
than 0.001), and accuracy (0.71 to 0.88, p less than 0.001). Internists showed
similar increments in sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy: 0.67 to 0.86 (p =
0.01), 0.59 to 0.84 (p = 0.01), and 0.63 to 0.85 (p = 0.002), respectively.
CONCLUSION: A brief educational intervention can result in meaningful improvement
in physician diagnostic accuracy in recognizing ophthalmoscopic signs of
open-angle glaucoma.

PMID: 2760698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):288-95.

Assessing quality of a diagnostic test evaluation.

Mulrow CD(1), Linn WD, Gaul MK, Pugh JA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center,
San Antonio.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a standardized scale for assessing the quality of a
diagnostic test evaluation.
DESIGN: Fourteen participants with formal and practical experience in evaluating 
diagnostic tests formed a consensus panel. Panel members identified and weighted 
questions that should be addressed when assessing the quality of a diagnostic
test evaluation.
SETTING: General internal medicine division at an academic medical center.
RESULTS: A 19-item weighted scale was developed. It prioritizes and addresses
issues such as description of the proposed purpose of the test; appropriate
selection and description of the study population; appropriate performance and
description of the diagnostic test; appropriate selection and performance of the 
reference standard; and adequate presentation of test characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: The scale is proposed as a useful instrument for readers,
investigators, reviewers, and editors, because it represents an updated synthesis
of important criteria to consider when evaluating diagnostic tests. It can also
be used to rate quantitatively the quality of diagnostic test evaluations.

PMID: 2760697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):284-7.

Bedside case presentations: why patients like them but learners don't.

Wang-Cheng RM(1), Barnas GP, Sigmann P, Riendl PA, Young MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Mar-Apr;5(2):181-2.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine current attitudes of patients, medical students,
housestaff, and clinical faculty toward bedside case presentations.
DESIGN: Survey using multiple-choice questionnaire and open comments for
students, housestaff, and faculty, and a structured interview of patients.
SETTING: Major teaching hospitals on the campus of a midwestern medical school,
staffed by full-time faculty.
PARTICIPANTS: 136 medical students, 58 housestaff, 66 faculty, and 73 patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: 85% of patients liked the case presentation
discussion at the bedside, but 95% of both students and housestaff felt more
comfortable with such discussion away from the patient. Attending faculty were
about evenly divided in preference, with the younger staff preferring the
conference room setting. Most patients (88%) opposed rounds in the hallway.
Duration of rounds of one to two hours was felt desirable by most, but 50% of
students preferred a duration of less than one hour. For length of new patient
case presentation, 60% of learners again favored brevity, less than 5 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: Bedside rounds are an opportunity to sharpen diagnostic skills and
to demonstrate the art of medicine. They are undervalued by learners and younger 
faculty but appreciated by patients. The authors recommend that faculty improve
bedside rounds by assessing team members' educational needs, by cultivating
sensitivity and respect for the needs of all parties, and by assuring pertinence 
and brevity of bedside discussion.

PMID: 2760696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Jul-Aug;4(4):273-6.

Biochemical tests for pheochromocytoma: strategies in hypertensive patients.

Young MJ(1), Dmuchowski C, Wallis JW, Barnas GP, Shapiro B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;5(1):93.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal clinical strategy utilizing either 1) serum
catecholamines, 2) urinary metanephrines, or 3) urinary vanillylmandelic acid
measurements in the evaluation of hypertensive patients with suspected
pheochromocytoma.
DESIGN: Prospective clinical determination of test-operating characteristics.
SETTING: Tertiary care university medical center.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: 415 patients referred for evaluation of suspected
pheochromocytoma.
INTERVENTIONS: All subjects had measurements of the three above-mentioned
biochemical tests with the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma established by tissue
confirmation.
RESULTS: All three biochemical tests were similar in sensitivity (0.70-0.75),
specificity (0.90-0.95), and receiver operating characteristics. With an
estimated disease prevalence of 5.9% in symptomatic hypertensive patients, the
predictive value of any single negative test would be 98% in ruling out disease.
CONCLUSIONS: All three biochemical tests have similar performance characteristics
and only a single test need be performed to exclude pheochromocytoma in most
symptomatic hypertensive patients in a primary care population.

PMID: 2668458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Kokyu To Junkan. 1989 Jul;37(7):765-71.

[Association of various cardiac parameters and signal-averaged
electrocardiographic late potentials in patients with myocardial infarction].

[Article in Japanese]

Miura M, Okabe S, Kimura M, Takahashi T, Tsuburaya T, Watanabe H, Hosoya K,
Hayashi M.

After the amplification and filtration of the surface ECG, late potential signal 
(LP) in QRS termination was determined. Subjects were 52 patients who experienced
acute myocardial infarction within 5 years and measurement was undertaken 70
times. 271 pulses (average) were measured using the Model 101 PC system (ART Co, 
Ltd) with 40-250 Hz filter. Relationship of LPs and ventricular tachyarrhythmia, 
LPs and left ventricular function were studied according to the ejection fraction
(EF) of left ventricle (= index of left ventricular function) and maximum value
of CPK (CPKmax) in acute phase. The patients with bundle branch block, atrial
fibrillation and noise above 1.0 microV were excluded.RESULTS: (1) Higher
incidence of LP was shown in patients with triplet or more runs of ventricular
tachycardias. (2) Higher incidence of LP was shown in patients with lower EF and 
higher CPKmax. Above results showed that non-invasive and simple recording of LPs
in patients with myocardial infarction was useful in the discrimination of the
patients with ventricular arrhythmia and presumption of left ventricular
function.

PMID: 2799096  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Neuroendocrinology. 1989 Jul;50(1):44-50.

Studies on the conditions determining the inhibitory effect of somatostatin on
adrenocorticotropin, prolactin and thyrotropin release by cultured rat pituitary 
cells.

Lamberts SW(1), Zuyderwijk J, den Holder F, van Koetsveld P, Hofland L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Somatostatin (SRIH) is a physiological inhibitor of growth hormone (GH)
secretion, but its role in the regulation of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), 
prolactin (PRL) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) release is unclear. SRIH (1
pM to 1 microM) did not affect basal and corticotropin-releasing hormone
(CRH)-stimulated ACTH release by normal rat pituitary cells cultured in medium
with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS). In cells deprived of serum for 48 h, or
preincubated with the glucocorticoid-receptor-blocking agent, RU 38486,
CRH-stimulated ACTH release was significantly suppressed by 1 pM to 0.10 nM SRIH.
Preincubation with 5 nM dexamethasone completely abolished this inhibitory effect
of SRIH on ACTH release. PRL release by pituitary cells cultured in phenol
red-free culture medium with 10% estrogen-stripped FCS showed a very low
sensitivity to SRIH. Increasing concentrations of 10 and 50 pM and 1 nM estradiol
made PRL release by these cells significantly less sensitive to 50 nM dopamine,
whereas the sensitivity to SRIH increased to a similar extent. In all instances
dopamine and SRIH together exerted additive inhibitory effects, the extent of
which remained similar under all conditions. After a 2-hour incubation,
thyrotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated TSH secretion was significantly
suppressed by 100 nM and 1 microM SRIH only in cells cultured in medium with 10% 
hypothyroid serum, and not in cells cultured in medium with 10% FCS. Such a
difference in the sensitivity of thyrotrophs to SRIH disappeared during longer
incubation.CONCLUSIONS: (1) ACTH release by normal corticotrophs is only
sensitive to SRIH in the absence of the physiological peripheral feedback
regulation by glucocorticoids.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2569172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 Jul-Aug;15(4):412-5.

Comparison of survivors and nonsurvivors in pediatric intensive care.

Medicus L, Dracup K, Verzemnieks I, Brill J.

PURPOSE: To identify characteristics of survivors and nonsurvivors among
critically ill children admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit.
METHOD: A retrospective chart review of 91 children (64 survivors and 27
nonsurvivors) compared age, gender, diagnostic category, and number of days in
the ICU. Data were analyzed by Fisher's Exact Test and ANOVA.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences among groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Data contribute to the development and testing of predictive models 
for decision-making in pediatric intensive care.

PMID: 2587098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Rozhl Chir. 1989 Jul;68(7):506-10.

[Advantages of autotransfusion].

[Article in Czech]

Fanta J, Vopatová M, Knajfl J, Horák L, Votocek J.

Autotransfusions have a period of renaissance.ADVANTAGES: the risk of
transmission of infectious diseases (hepatitis, malaria, lues, AIDS etc.) is
eliminated; there is no danger of isosensitization; autologous blood ensures a
better oxygen transfer and higher activity of coagulation factors; pretransfusion
examinations are eliminated; there is no need to postpone the operation for
shortage of blood; the consumption of homologous blood is reduced; economy;
religious objections against transfusion of homologous blood are eliminated. The 
authors know of no disadvantages. Blood for autotransfusion was collected from
130 patients before a planned operation, 11 times two consecutive blood
collections were made. No complication threatening the patient's health was
encountered.

PMID: 2799560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Vrach Delo. 1989 Jul;(7):96-7.

[Sutton's disease].

[Article in Russian]

Poluéktov IuA, Krugovov BA, Budiak VA, Ugol'nikova TI.

Four patients with Sutton's disease (males--2, females--2, age--from 8 to 26
years) were observed for 2 to six years. Multiple lesions were found in 3,
single--in 1 patients.LOCATION: skin of the back, extremities, neck, head. No
case of malignization was noted; in two patients Sutton nevi disappeared
completely spontaneously, but new growths appeared in other places. Though all
cases had a benign nature alertness as to malignant degeneration should be
observed.

PMID: 2800520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1989 Jun 30;109(19-21):2038-40.

[Gudrun's story. What stuff is illness made of?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kirkengen AL.

What stuff is illness made of? Anne Luise Kirkengen, MD A story of life and a
story of illness are two versions of the same issue. We are such stuff as dreams 
are made of, and our little life is rounded with a sleep. Prospero, The Tempest, 
by William Shakespeare Gudrun, 60 years old, married to Gunnar, mother of Nils 35
and Nicole 30 years old, grandmother of Mads, six months old. Previous
office-manager, disabled since 1986.DIAGNOSIS: fibrositis syndrome,
hypothyreosis, depression, chronic obstructive lung-disease. Sexually abused by
her stepfather at age 11 until 14. Gudrun reflects about how this may have
influenced her life, her health and her personal relationships.

PMID: 2749697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. BMJ. 1989 Jun 24;298(6689):1671-3.

Efficacy and long term effects of antenatal prophylaxis with anti-D
immunoglobulin.

Thornton JG(1), Page C, Foote G, Arthur GR, Tovey LA, Scott JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, General Infirmary, Leeds.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 26;299(6698):568.

OBJECTIVE: To measure the safety and efficacy of antenatal treatment with anti-D 
immunoglobulin.
DESIGN: Open study with historical controls.
SETTING: Multicentre study in 17 hospitals in West Yorkshire.
PATIENTS: 1238 Rh negative women who delivered Rh positive infants after 34 weeks
in their first pregnancy in 1980-1 (group 1) and 2000 similar primigravidas from 
1978-9 (group 2). Obstetric data were collected for 616 women in group 1 who had 
a subsequent pregnancy, 536 similar women in group 2, and 410 Rh positive but
otherwise similar primigravidas who delivered in the same hospitals in 1978-81
(group C).
INTERVENTIONS: Anti-D immunoglobulin 100 micrograms intramuscularly was given at 
28 and 34 weeks to the mothers in their first pregnancy who delivered in 1980-1.
END POINTS: Detection of anti-D antibody in the first or any subsequent pregnancy
in groups 1 and 2. For all three groups having subsequent pregnancies gestation
at delivery, birth weight, fetal survival at one month, pre-eclampsia defined as 
blood pressure greater than 140/90 on two occasions more than 12 hours apart, and
proteinuria greater than 0.25 milligram.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Antenatal immunisation to Rh(D) occurred in six
mothers in group 1 and 32 group 2. Most immunisations occurred in the first or
second pregnancy. The rates of abortion, gestation at delivery, birth weight, and
fetal survival were not significantly different among the three groups. The
incidence of pre-eclampsia was lower in mothers given antenatal anti-D
immunoglobulin, but the difference was not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Antenatal prophylaxis with anti-D immunoglobulin is effective, and
the effect of giving it in the first pregnancy persists into at least the second 
pregnancy. It seems to be safe for the fetus in the index and subsequent
pregnancies.

PMCID: PMC1836780
PMID: 2547468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. BMJ. 1989 Jun 24;298(6689):1684-6.

Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole?

Yohkaichiya T(1), Fukaya T, Hoshiai H, Yajima A, de Kretser DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To define the concentrations of inhibin in serum and tissue of
patients with hydatidiform mole and assess their value as a clinical marker of
the condition.
DESIGN: Prospective study of new patients with hydatidiform mole, comparison of
paired observations, and case-control analysis.
SETTING: A university hospital, two large public hospitals, and a private women's
clinic in Japan.
PATIENTS: Seven consecutive referred patients seen over four months with newly
diagnosed complete hydatidiform mole, including one in whom the mole was
accompanied by viable twin fetuses (case excluded from statistical analysis
because of unique clinical features). All patients followed up for six months
after evacuation of molar tissue.
END POINT: Correlation of serum inhibin concentrations with trophoblastic
disease.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Serum concentrations of inhibin, human chorionic
gonadotrophin, and follicle stimulating hormone were compared before and seven to
10 days after evacuation of the mole. Before evacuation the serum inhibin
concentrations (median 8.3 U/ml; 95% confidence interval 2.4 to 34.5) were
significantly greater than in 21 normal women at the same stage of pregnancy (2.8
U/ml; 2.1 to 3.6), and inhibin in molar tissue was also present in high
concentrations (578 U/ml cytosol; 158 to 1162). Seven to 10 days after evacuation
inhibin concentrations in serum samples from the same patients declined
significantly to values (0.4 U/ml; 0.1 to 1.4) similar to those seen in the
follicular phase of normal menstrual cycles. None of the four patients whose
serum inhibin concentrations were 0.4 U/ml or less after evacuation developed
persistent trophoblastic disease. Though serum human chorionic gonadotrophin
concentrations declined after evacuation (6.6 x 10(3) IU/l; 0.8 x 10(3) to 32.6 x
10(3], they remained far higher than in non-pregnant women. Serum follicle
stimulating hormone concentrations remained suppressed.
CONCLUSIONS: In this small study serum inhibin concentrations higher than those
found in the early follicular phase one to two weeks after evacuation of a
hydatidiform mole seemed to be specific for persistent trophoblastic disease.
Further data are needed to confirm these promising results.

PMCID: PMC1836764
PMID: 2503176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. BMJ. 1989 Jun 24;298(6689):1679-84.

Neuropsychological consequences of volatile substance abuse: a population based
study of secondary school pupils.

Chadwick O(1), Anderson R, Bland M, Ramsey J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Social Medicine, St George's Hospital
Medical School, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Aug 12;299(6696):458-9.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of volatile substance abuse on
neuropsychological functioning.
DESIGN: A sample of index children and matched controls were identified by a two 
stage procedure. Firstly, over 5000 secondary school pupils completed a screening
questionnaire, and, secondly, a sample of those who acknowledged volatile
substance abuse and a matched sample of those who denied the practice were
assessed in detail by means of (a) individually conducted interviews and (b)
toxicological examination of breath samples (to exclude those intoxicated at the 
time of testing).
SETTING: 16 Local education authority secondary schools in London.
SUBJECTS: 160 Pupils aged 13-16: 80 index children who had abused volatile
substances to the point of intoxication at least once (confirmed by interview)
and 80 controls (confirmed by interview) matched for school year, sex, and ethnic
background.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Neuropsychological functioning tests provided 35
main outcome measures and were administered blind. Data on educational test
performance before substance abuse began were obtained retrospectively.
Information on potentially confounding social factors, such as number of
siblings, tenure of housing, and parents' socioeconomic and employment state was 
also obtained. The index children performed significantly less well than the
controls in tests of vocabulary, verbal intelligence quotient, full scale
intelligence quotient, and a measure of impulsivity. When background social
disadvantage was taken into account these differences were no longer significant.
There were no significant associations between performance on psychological
testing and frequency of abuse, and relations with other aspects of the
children's history of abuse were generally weak or unsystematic. Comparisons
between the results of these tests and of educational tests taken before
substance abuse produced equivocal findings.
CONCLUSION: Volatile substance abuse, as commonly practised by secondary school
pupils, is unlikely to result in neuropsychological impairment.

PMCID: PMC1836750
PMID: 2503175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


508. BMJ. 1989 Jun 24;298(6689):1673-8.

Damp housing, mould growth, and symptomatic health state.

Platt SD(1), Martin CJ, Hunt SM, Lewis CW.

Author information: 
(1)Unit for Epidemiological Studies in Psychiatry, Royal Edinburgh Hospital.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 29;299(6694):325.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the relation between damp and mould growth and symptomatic 
ill health.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study of random sample of households containing children;
separate and independent assessments of housing conditions (by surveyor) and
health (structured interview by trained researcher).
SETTING: Subjects' homes (in selected areas of public housing in Glasgow,
Edinburgh, and London).
SUBJECTS: Adult respondents (94% women) and 1169 children living in 597
households.
END POINTS: Specific health symptoms and general evaluation of health among
respondents and children over two weeks before interview; and score on general
health questionnaire (only respondents).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Damp was found in 184 (30.8%) dwellings and actual
mould growth in 274 (45.9%). Adult respondents living in damp and mouldy
dwellings were likely to report more symptoms overall, including nausea and
vomiting, blocked nose, breathlessness, backache, fainting, and bad nerves, than 
respondents in dry dwellings. Children living in damp and mouldy dwellings had a 
greater prevalence of respiratory symptoms (wheeze, sore throat, runny nose) and 
headaches and fever compared with those living in dry dwellings. The mean number 
of symptoms was higher in damp and mouldy houses and positively associated with
increasing severity of dampness and mould (dose response relation). All these
differences persisted after controlling for possible confounding factors such as 
household income, cigarette smoking, unemployment, and overcrowding. Other
possible sources of bias that might invalidate the assumption of a causal link
between housing conditions and ill health--namely, investigator bias, respondent 
bias, and selection bias--were also considered and ruled out.
CONCLUSION: Damp and mouldy living conditions have an adverse effect on
symptomatic health, particularly among children.

PMCID: PMC1836778
PMID: 2503174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nihon Gan Chiryo Gakkai Shi. 1989 Jun 20;24(6):1223-8.

[Clinical study of undifferentiated renal cell carcinoma in comparison with well 
differentiated cases].

[Article in Japanese]

Onishi T, Machida T, Masuda F, Kurauchi H, Suzuki M, Iizuka N, Shirakawa H.

During the past 28 years, 397 patients with renal cell carcinoma were treated at 
The Jikei University Hospital and its related institutions. Of these, 44 cases
with undifferentiated renal cell carcinoma (grade IV) were compared with well
differentiated cases (grade I), with regard to following 5 clinicopathological
items: 1) general clinical features such as distribution of patient ages, sex
ratio, affected side, the relationship of age and the volume of nephrectomized
kidney, 2) angiographic appearance, 3) distribution of stages, 4) distribution of
metastatic organs, 5) survival rates of each grade and each stage.THE RESULTS: 1)
There was no specific trend in the distribution of affected ages, sex ratio and
affected side of the tumour, but the volume of nephrectomized kidney in grade IV 
cases was much larger than that of the kidneys in grade 1 cases. Furthermore, in 
grade IV cases, the older the patient, the much lighter was the nephrectomized
kidney. 2) No specific trends were observed in the angiographic pattern in the
two groups. 3) Regarding stages, 75% of patients with the grade IV had stage IV
carcinoma. But, 69% of patients with grade I had stage I. 4) Grade IV patients
had a high incidence of lung and liver metastasis compared with grade I, which
had a high incidence of bone metastasis. 5) Patients in grade IV and in grade I
with stages I-III carcinomas lived longer than any grade with stage IV. So the
undifferentiated renal cell carcinoma should be treated with adjuvant therapy
even in low stage.

PMID: 2794645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. BMJ. 1989 Jun 17;298(6688):1611-4.

Postoperative radiotherapy and late mortality: evidence from the Cancer Research 
Campaign trial for early breast cancer.

Haybittle JL(1), Brinkley D, Houghton J, A'Hern RP, Baum M.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Trials Office, Cambridge.

OBJECTIVE: To identify any excess mortality caused by adjuvant radiotherapy for
early breast cancer.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised clinical trial. Two thousand subjects needed for
study to have a 90% chance of detecting a difference in survival rate of 7% with 
95% significance. Patients were followed up until June 1988, giving follow up of 
158-216 months.
SETTING: A multicentre trial mainly drawing patients from centres in the United
Kingdom.
PATIENTS: 2800 Women presenting with clinical stage I or II carcinoma of the
breast from June 1970 to April 1975.
INTERVENTIONS: One group of women (n = 1376) had simple mastectomy followed by
immediate postoperative radiotherapy (1320 to 1510 rets). The remaining women (n 
= 1424) had simple mastectomy with subsequent careful observation of the axilla, 
radiotherapy being delayed until there was obvious progression or recurrence of
disease locally.
END POINT: Increased mortality in patients treated with radiotherapy from causes 
other than breast cancer.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Survival was measured from time of first treatment
to death or last follow up. Deaths from any cause and from specified causes were 
counted as events. Comparison over the whole follow up showed a slight excess
mortality in the group treated with radiotherapy (relative risk 1.04; 95%
confidence interval 0.94 to 1.15). The relative risk of death from breast cancer 
was 0.97 (0.87 to 1.08) but that of death from other causes was 1.37 (1.09 to
1.72), the increase mainly being in women who had had tumours of the left breast 
(1.61 (1.17 to 2.24)) and had been treated with orthovoltage (1.85 (1.27 to
2.71)). Analysis of causes of death after five years showed a relative risk of
2.11 (1.25 to 3.59) for new malignancies and of 1.65 (1.05 to 2.58) for cardiac
disease, the increase in cardiac mortality being most pronounced in patients who 
had had tumours of the left breast and whose treatment had included orthovoltage 
radiation (relative risk 2.67 (1.28 to 5.55)).
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant radiotherapy after simple mastectomy for early breast
cancer produces a small excess late mortality from other cancers and cardiac
disease. The risk has to be balanced against the higher risk of local recurrence 
when immediate postoperative radiotherapy is not given. The balance has to be
assessed for each patient, and for many patients radiotherapy will still be
desirable in the initial treatment of their early breast cancer.

PMCID: PMC1836871
PMID: 2503148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. BMJ. 1989 Jun 17;298(6688):1607-11.

Critical assessment of the use of growth monitoring for identifying high risk
children in primary health care programmes.

Briend A(1), Bari A.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether change in weight was a more useful index than weight
for age in assessing the risk of dying among malnourished children.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Rural community in Bangladesh being served by international health
organisation.
PARTICIPANTS: 1011 Children aged under 5, of whom 66 died.
END POINT: Efficient screening method for identifying malnourished children at
risk of dying.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Weight was measured every month. Weight for age
and monthly change in weight averaged over one and three months were calculated. 
Sensitivity and specificity curves were used to compare the values of these two
variables in identifying children with a high risk of dying. Weight for age was
more sensitive than change in weight at all levels of specificity. Changes in
weight, however, were independently related to the risk of dying even when
intercurrent diseases and low weight for age were taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS: For identifying children with a high risk of dying weight for age is
a more efficient screening tool than a recent change in weight. Growth monitoring
as currently recommended for primary health care programmes in developing
countries does not seem to be the most effective approach in identifying children
in need of urgent help.

PMCID: PMC1836853
PMID: 2503147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. BMJ. 1989 Jun 17;298(6688):1605-7.

Adherence to recommendations for early repeat cervical smear tests.

Mitchell H(1), Medley G.

Author information: 
(1)Victorian Cytology Gynaecological Service, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To assess adherence to recommendations for an early repeat cervical
smear test in women with reports of cytological abnormalities, and to evaluate
the impact of reminder letters to medical practitioners when such smear tests are
overdue.
DESIGN: Observational study.
SETTING: Cytology (gynaecological) service for Victoria, Australia.
SUBJECTS: Two groups of women who had abnormal cervical smears during 1985. Women
in group A had some evidence of an important dysplasia and were advised to have a
repeat smear in three months' time whereas women in group B had a less serious
abnormality and were advised to have a repeat smear test in six months' time. In 
all, 971 of the 1036 women in group A and 1401 of the 1464 women in group B were 
eligible to have a repeat smear analysed by the service.
INTERVENTION: If a repeat smear had not been received within three months of the 
recommended date a reminder letter generated by the service's computer was sent
to the medical practitioner who had taken the smear.
END POINT: Thirty six months after the report on the abnormal smear was issued.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In all, 870 (90%) of the women in group A and 1154
(82%) of the women in group B had a repeat smear test. The mean time to a repeat 
test was 3.0 months (95% confidence interval 0.5 to 16.4) in group A and 6.0
months (1.2 to 30.3) in group B. The reminder letter to the practitioner
potentially increased the rate of return for a repeat smear test by 18% in group 
A and 24% in group B. Adherence to the recommendation for a repeat test increased
with increasing age.
CONCLUSIONS: Achieving high rates of follow up smear tests and appropriate
management in women with cytological abnormalities is critical to the impact of a
screening programme for cervical cancer. The reminder system used in this study
was not labour intensive or expensive and provided a fail safe mechanism for
ensuring that reports of abnormal smears were not overlooked.

PMCID: PMC1836856
PMID: 2503146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):985-91.

Chronic diarrhea associated with drinking untreated water.

Parsonnet J(1), Trock SC, Bopp CA, Wood CJ, Addiss DG, Alai F, Gorelkin L,
Hargrett-Bean N, Gunn RA, Tauxe RV.

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia.

PURPOSE: To determine the cause of an outbreak of chronic diarrhea and to define 
the clinical profile of the illness.
DESIGN: A case series of patients with chronic diarrhea and case-control and
cohort studies to determine the vehicle and cause of the illness.
SETTING: Rural Henderson County, Illinois.
PATIENTS: Seventy-two patients who had onset of chronic diarrheal illness between
May and August 1987. Controls were local residents and eating companions who did 
not have diarrheal illness. A cohort study included 80 truck drivers from a local
firm.
METHODS AND MEASUREMENTS: Nonbloody diarrhea was characterized by extreme
frequency (median, 12 stools/d), marked urgency, fecal incontinence, and weight
loss (mean, 4.5 kg). The median incubation period was 10 days. Nine patients were
hospitalized; none died. Diarrhea persisted in 87% of patients after 6 months.
Antimicrobial therapy produced no clinical improvement. No bacterial,
mycobacterial, viral, or parasitic agents known to be enteropathogenic were
detected in stools or implicated water. Three of five small-bowel biopsies showed
mild inflammatory changes. Mild inflammation was also seen in two of nine colonic
biopsies. Case-control studies implicated a local restaurant (P = 0.0001, odds
ratio = 19) and subsequently the untreated well water served in the restaurant (P
= 0.04, odds ratio = 9.3) as the vehicle of transmission.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first outbreak of chronic diarrhea linked to drinking
untreated water. The causative agent and pathophysiologic mechanism of the
illness remain elusive.

PMID: 2729809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):957-62.

Candidates for thrombolysis among emergency room patients with acute chest pain. 
Potential true- and false-positive rates.

Lee TH(1), Weisberg MC, Brand DA, Rouan GW, Goldman L.

Author information: 
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):540.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):685-6.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential clinical impact of thrombolytic therapy 
for acute myocardial infarction by determining true-positive and false-positive
rates of criteria for eligibility among emergency room patients with acute chest 
pain.
DESIGN: Prospective multicenter cohort study.
SETTING: Emergency rooms of three university and four community hospitals.
PATIENTS: Emergency room patients (7734) with acute chest pain.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Only 261 (23%) of 1118 patients with acute
myocardial infarctions were 75 years of age or younger, presented within 4 hours 
of the onset of pain, and had emergency room electrocardiograms showing probable 
acute myocardial infarction: 60 (0.9%) of the 6616 patients without infarction
also met these criteria (positive predictive value, 261/321 = 81%; CI, 77% to
86%). The positive predictive value could increase to about 88% (CI, 82% to 93%) 
if eligibility were based on the official hospital electrocardiogram reading.
CONCLUSIONS: Because experience from published studies suggests that about one
third of patients who meet these three eligibility criteria have other
contraindications to thrombolysis, we estimate that about 15% of patients with
acute myocardial infarction would meet the criteria for eligibility for
thrombolysis that have been used in clinical trials at the time of emergency room
presentation. Further, for every eight patients with true-positive results who
are treated, one to two patients with false-positive results may also be treated 
if decisions are based on the interpretation of a single electrocardiogram.

PMID: 2658715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):1001-16.

Transplanted infections: donor-to-host transmission with the allograft.

Gottesdiener KM.

Author information: 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the transmission of infectious agents from organ donors to
transplant recipients, and to assess risk factors for transmission, primarily in 
recipients of kidney, cornea, and heart allografts.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Computerized literature searches of MEDLINE and PAPERCHASE
through January 1988, extensive review of references from identified articles,
and review of major clinical and transplantation journals through June 1988.
STUDY SELECTION: All case reports and studies that reported a possible
donor-to-recipient transmission of infection were selected and reviewed.
DATA EXTRACTION: Each case report or patient series of donor-to-recipient
transmission was judged as possible, probable, or proven depending on the
completeness of donor and recipient information available and the likelihood of
alternate causes of infection.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: True donor-transmitted infection can occur with
viruses including human immunodeficiency virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, 
Epstein-Barr, rabies, the virus causing Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and with
hepatitis B virus. It can also occur with many common aerobic bacteria, although 
allograft-transmitted bacterial infection is more often caused by contamination
during harvesting and processing. Fungi and yeast, as well as toxoplasmosis, have
been transmitted less frequently, and there have been rare instances when
mycobacterial infection, malaria, trypanosomiasis, and strongyloidiasis have been
transplanted with the donor organ.
CONCLUSIONS: Infection can be transmitted with a donor organ to the recipient,
but contamination of the organ during processing and harvesting is commoner and
may lead to severe infection in the recipient, especially if contamination is by 
one of a subset of more virulent organisms. True donor-transmitted infection,
although rare, can be reduced by careful donor screening, which should include
clinical and epidemiologic assessment for evidence of infection, as well as
judicious laboratory testing.

PMID: 2658709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):970-5.

Unique alterations of thyroid hormone indices in the acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS)

LoPresti JS(1), Fried JC, Spencer CA, Nicoloff JT.

Author information: 
(1)University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):857-8.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):951.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine alterations in serum thyroid hormone indices in
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
DESIGN: Prospective, single-blind study.
SETTING: Large metropolitan hospital where 20% of all patients with the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in Los Angeles are treated.
PATIENTS: Twenty-six inpatients with bronchoscopy-proven Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia and AIDS. Outpatients included 10 persons seropositive for HIV, 10 with
AIDS-related complex, and 10 with AIDS.
MAIN RESULTS: There were 19 survivors and 7 nonsurvivors of P. carinii infection.
Serum triiodothyronine (T3) values generally remained normal until
hospitalization, with nonsurvivors having lower values than survivors (0.56 +/-
0.1 nmol/L compared with 1.3 +/- 0.1 nmol/L, P less than 0.002, respectively).
Reverse triiodothyronine (rT3) levels were low in persons with AIDS-related
complex (0.21 +/- 0.02 nmol/L, P less than 0.001) and in AIDS outpatients (0.17
+/- 0.02 nmol/L, P less than 0.001). Normalization of rT3 occurred after patients
were hospitalized (0.28 +/- 0.01 nmol/L). Serum thyroxine-binding globulin values
rose with progression of HIV infection (seropositive, 369.7 +/- 18.1 nmol/L, P
less than 0.005; AIDS-related complex, 419.1 +/- 37.0 nmol/L, P less than 0.005; 
AIDS, 423.3 +/- 31.9 nmol/L, P less than 0.005; survivors, 476.3 +/- 24.6 nmol/L,
P less than 0.001), whereas nonsurvivors had normal values. All values are
compared with normal values (T3, 2.3 +/- 0.04 nmol/L; rT3, 0.28 +/- 0.01 nmol/L; 
thyroxine-binding globulin, 288.2 +/- 6.9 nmol/L).
CONCLUSIONS: Infection with HIV produces unique alterations in thyroid function. 
A progressive decline in rT3 and elevation in thyroxine-binding globulin
accompany advancing HIV infection. The persistence of a normal T3 despite
progression of HIV infection may contribute to weight loss. A low serum T3 on
admission correlates with mortality.

PMID: 2567143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):963-9.

Predictive markers for the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in
hemophiliacs: persistence of p24 antigen and low T4 cell count.

Eyster ME(1), Ballard JO, Gail MH, Drummond JE, Goedert JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pennsylvania State University School of Medicine, Hershey.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To investigate the predictive value of assays for human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) p24 antigen, p24 antibody, and gp120 antibody
compared with T4 cell counts.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort selected from persons who had HIV-antibody
seroconversion.
PATIENTS: Eighty-seven persons with hemophilia with an actuarial cumulative
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) incidence of 26% (CI, 12% to 40%), 8
years after HIV-antibody seroconversion.
INTERVENTION: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Human immunodeficiency virus p24 antigen was
detected in 8 of 74 (11%) of the patients without AIDS and 7 of 13 (54%) of the
patients with AIDS. The 2-year actuarial incidence of AIDS was 24% (CI, 0% to
48%) after detection of p24 antigen, 16% (CI, 0% to 34%) after loss of p24
antibody, 20% (CI, 0% to 45%) after loss of gp120 antibody, 31% (CI, 15% to 47%) 
after a T4 count of less than 200 cells/microL, and 67% (CI, 31% to 100%) after a
T4 count of less than 200 cells/microL among those patients positive for p24
antigen. Very low numbers of T4 and T8 lymphocytes, presence of p24 antigen in
serum, and absence of p24 antibody all had some predictive value. However, only
p24 antigen (relative hazard 6.0, P = 0.008) and T4 counts (relative hazard 5.3, 
P = 0.002 with T4 count less than 200 cells/microL) independently predicted AIDS 
up to 12 months before diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Strong predictors of AIDS are p24 antigenemia or low T4 counts.
Detection of p24 antigen is highly specific and complementary to the greater
sensitivity of low T4 counts. These findings have important implications
regarding prognosis, counseling, and the planning of clinical trials.

PMID: 2567142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):976-84.

Treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes with recombinant human granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor. A phase I-II trial.

Negrin RS(1), Haeuber DH, Nagler A, Olds LC, Donlon T, Souza LM, Greenberg PL.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University Medical Center, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the hematopoietic effects and toxicity of
recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes.
DESIGN: The G-CSF was administered by daily subcutaneous injection to outpatients
in a phase I-II trial. Dose was escalated every 2 weeks between 0.1 to 3.0
micrograms/kg body weight.d over an 8-week treatment period.
SETTING: Outpatient clinical research center at a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Twelve consecutive patients with myelodysplastic syndromes: two
refractory anemia, seven refractory anemia with excess of blasts, three
refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In 10 of 12 patients, elevations in blood
leukocyte counts (2- to 10-fold) and absolute neutrophil counts (5- to 40-fold)
were seen over the 8-week treatment period. Five of seven severely neutropenic
patients (absolute neutrophil count, less than 0.5 x 10(9)/L) had a rise in count
to 1.2 to 16.3 x 10(9)/L. Increased reticulocyte counts occurred in 5 patients,
and were associated with decreased transfusion requirements in 2 of 9 erythrocyte
transfusion-dependent patients. Treatment with G-CSF enhanced marrow myeloid cell
maturation in 9 of 11 evaluable patients. Neutrophil chemotaxis and phagocytosis 
in vitro were improved or unchanged after treatment in 6 of 8 patients tested. In
11 of 12 patients, there were no substantial changes in platelet, lymphocyte,
eosinophil, or monocyte counts. Three responding patients initially had abnormal 
cytogenetics that persisted after G-CSF therapy, suggesting induced
differentiation of the abnormal clone. The therapy was associated with minimal
toxicity. None of the patients' conditions converted to acute leukemia during
treatment or in short-term follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with G-CSF administered by subcutaneous injection is well 
tolerated and effective for improving the neutropenia, and less commonly the
transfusion-dependent anemia, over 6 to 8 weeks in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes.

PMID: 2471429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. BMJ. 1989 Jun 10;298(6687):1556-60.

Prevalence and diagnosis of chronic respiratory symptoms in adults.

Littlejohns P(1), Ebrahim S, Anderson R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Social Medicine, St George's Hospital
Medical School, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):182.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence and diagnosis of chronic respiratory
disease in adults.
DESIGN: Screening questionnaire was sent to all patients aged 40-70 on the
register of a group general practice; those responding positively were sent a
detailed questionnaire and invited for assessment of respiratory function by
forced expiratory volume in one second, forced vital capacity, peak flow rate,
and reversibility studies with a beta adrenergic inhaler.
SETTING: Group general practice in south west London.
RESULTS: Of 2387 patients aged 40-70, 1444 completed a screening questionnaire.
Of the 509 patients who reported cough, phlegm, wheeze, or shortness of breath,
324 responded to a detailed questionnaire, 256 of whom had simple respiratory
function assessed. Chronic bronchitis affected 106 (17%) men and 58 (7%) women,
and wheeze occurring at least once a week affected 60 (9%) men and 20 (3%) women.
Only a half to a third of patients had received a diagnostic label of chronic
bronchitis or asthma for their symptoms. There was considerable clinical and
physiological similarity (including reversibility of the airways) between
patients labelled as having asthma and having chronic bronchitis. A label of
asthma was used more often for patients of social classes I and II.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparison with prevalence surveys carried out in the 1950s showed
that respiratory symptoms are as common now as then, but the risk of disabling
chronic bronchitis has fallen, more among men than women, probably because of
their reduced smoking. Changes in diagnostic fashion, together with increased
detection, may have contributed to the upward trend in reported morbidity from
asthma over the past 30 years.

PMCID: PMC1836795
PMID: 2503115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. BMJ. 1989 Jun 10;298(6687):1552-6.

Relation between mortality and treated blood pressure in elderly patients with
hypertension: report of the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the 
Elderly.

Staessen J(1), Bulpitt C, Clement D, De Leeuw P, Fagard R, Fletcher A, Forette F,
Leonetti G, Nissinen A, O'Malley K, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Klinisch Laboratorium Hypertensie, University Hospital Gathuisberg, Leuven,
Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relation between mortality and treated systolic and
diastolic blood pressures.
DESIGN: Randomised double blind placebo controlled trial. Mortality in the two
treatment groups was examined in thirds of treated systolic and diastolic blood
pressures.
PATIENTS: 339 And 352 patients allocated to placebo and active treatment,
respectively. The groups were similar at randomisation in sex ratio (70% women), 
mean age (71.5 years), blood pressure (182/101 mm Hg), and proportion of patients
with cardiovascular complications (35%).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the placebo group total mortality rose with
increasing systolic pressure whereas it had a U shaped relation with diastolic
pressure, the total lowest mortality being in patients in the middle third of the
distribution of diastolic pressure. In the group given active treatment total
mortality showed a U shaped relation with systolic pressure and an inverse
association with treated diastolic pressure. In both groups cardiovascular and
non-cardiovascular mortality followed the same trends as total mortality. The
increased mortality in the lowest thirds of pressure was not associated with an
increased proportion of patients with cardiovascular complications at
randomisation or with a fall in diastolic pressure exceeding the median fall in
pressure in each group. In contrast, patients in the lowest thirds of pressure
showed greater decreases in body weight and haemoglobin concentration than those 
in the middle and upper thirds of pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients taking active treatment total mortality was increased in
the lowest thirds of treated systolic and diastolic blood pressures. This
increased mortality is not necessarily explained by an exaggerated reduction in
pressure induced by drugs as for diastolic pressure a U shaped relation also
existed during treatment with placebo. In addition, patients in the lowest thirds
of systolic and diastolic pressures were characterised by decreases in body
weight and haemoglobin concentration, and the patients in the lowest thirds of
diastolic pressure taking active treatment also by an increased
non-cardiovascular mortality, suggesting some deterioration of general health.

PMCID: PMC1836829
PMID: 2503114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. BMJ. 1989 Jun 10;298(6687):1549-52.

Passive smoking, salivary cotinine concentrations, and middle ear effusion in 7
year old children.

Strachan DP(1), Jarvis MJ, Feyerabend C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University of Edinburgh.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 22;299(6693):258-9.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the contribution of passive exposure to tobacco smoke to the
development of middle ear underpressure and effusion.
DESIGN: Cross sectional observational study.
SETTING: One third of the primary schools in Edinburgh.
SUBJECTS: 892 Children aged 6 1/2 to 7 1/2 were examined, and satisfactory
tympanograms were obtained in 872. Results of assay of salivary cotinine
concentrations were available for 770 children, and satisfactory tympanograms
were available for 736 of these.
END POINT: Correlation of the prevalence of middle ear underpressure and effusion
with concentrations of the marker of nicotine, cotinine, in the saliva of the
children.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Middle ear pressure and compliance were measured
in both ears by impedance tympanometry. Salivary cotinine concentrations were
assayed by gas-liquid chromatography. Cotinine concentrations increased with the 
number of smokers in the household. Girls had higher concentrations than boys,
and children living in rented housing had higher concentrations than those living
in housing owned by their parents. There was a trend towards more abnormal
tympanometric findings with increasing cotinine concentration, the odds ratio for
a doubling of the cotinine concentration being 1.14 (95% confidence interval 1.03
to 1.27). After adjustment for the sex of the child and housing tenure the odds
ratio for a doubling of the cotinine concentration was 1.13 (1.00 to 1.28).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study are consistent with those of case-control 
studies of children attending for an operation to relieve middle ear effusion.
They indicate that the disease should be added to the list of recognised hazards 
associated with passive smoking. About one third of the cases of middle ear
effusion in this study were statistically attributable to exposure to tobacco
smoke.

PMCID: PMC1836817
PMID: 2503113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. BMJ. 1989 Jun 3;298(6686):1488-90.

Peripheral blood flow in menopausal women who have hot flushes and in those who
do not.

Ginsburg J(1), Hardiman P, O'Reilly B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Royal Free Hospital Medical School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To compare blood pressure, heart rate, and peripheral vascular
responsiveness in menopausal women who have hot flushes and in those who do not, 
and to assess the effect on these variables of treating women who have hot
flushes with oestriol, a natural oestrogen, given vaginally.
DESIGN: An open, non-randomised cohort study of flushing and non-flushing
menopausal women. A before and after investigation of the effects of vaginal
oestriol treatment on the circulation.
SETTING: Referral based endocrinology clinic.
PATIENTS: 88 Consecutive menopausal women, 63 complaining of frequent hot flushes
and 25 who had not flushed for at least a year.
INTERVENTION: Treatment with vaginal oestriol 0.5 mg at night for six weeks in 18
of the women who had hot flushes.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Peripheral blood flow was measured by venous
occlusion plethysmography at rest and in response to stressful mental arithmetic 
and anoxic forearm exercises. Blood flow in the forearm and its variability were 
significantly higher in flushing than in non-flushing women (4.1 (SD 1.7) and 3.1
(0.9) ml/100 ml tissue/min and 17% and 13% respectively). Blood pressure, heart
rate, and blood flow in the hand were, however, similar in the two groups. No
difference was found in the peripheral incremental response to either stress or
anoxic exercise. Vaginal oestriol significantly lowered forearm blood flow from
4.4 (1.5) to 3.3 (1.1) ml/100 ml tissue/min but dilator responsiveness was
unaffected.
CONCLUSIONS: The peripheral circulation is different in menopausal women who have
hot flushes compared with those who do not, with selective vasodilatation in the 
forearm. The lowered blood flow in the forearm after vaginal oestriol in flushing
women may be relevant to the alleviation of vasomotor symptoms induced by
oestrogen treatment.

PMCID: PMC1836700
PMID: 2503082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. BMJ. 1989 Jun 3;298(6686):1483-6.

Trial of support treatment with human chorionic gonadotrophin in the luteal phase
after treatment with buserelin and human menopausal gonadotrophin in women taking
part in an in vitro fertilisation programme.

Smith EM(1), Anthony FW, Gadd SC, Masson GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Reproduction and Obstetrics, Princess Anne Hospital,
University of Southampton.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of support with human chorionic gonadotrophin
in the luteal phase in women taking part in an in vitro fertilisation programme
after buserelin and human menopausal gonadotrophin were used to hyperstimulate
their ovaries.
DESIGN: Controlled group comparison.
SETTING: Outpatient department of a private hospital.
PATIENTS: 115 Women with indications for in vitro fertilisation, all of whom had 
at least one embryo transferred.
INTERVENTIONS: After suppression of the pituitary with buserelin the ovaries of
all the women were stimulated with human menopausal gonadotrophin on day 4 of the
luteal phase. Human chorionic gonadotrophin (10,000 IU) was given to induce
ovulation, and oocytes were recovered 34 hours later. Embryos were transferred 46
to 48 hours after insemination. Women who had received the 10,000 IU of human
chorionic gonadotrophin on a date that was an uneven number (n = 61) were
allocated to receive support doses of 2500 IU human chorionic gonadotrophin three
and six days after that date. The remaining 54 women did not receive hormonal
support.
END POINT: Determination of the rates of pregnancy. MEASUREMENTS and main
results--Support with human chorionic gonadotrophin did not significantly alter
the progesterone or oestradiol concentrations in the early or mid-luteal phase.
The mean (range) progesterone concentrations in the late luteal phase in women
who did not become pregnant were, however, significantly higher in those who
received support (16(9-110) nmol/l nu 8(4-46) nmol/l), and the luteal phase was
significantly longer in this group (14 days nu 12 days). The rate of pregnancy
was significantly higher in the women who received support than in those who did 
not (25/61 nu 8/54).
CONCLUSIONS: When buserelin and human menopausal gonadotrophin are used to
hyperstimulate ovaries support with human chorionic gonadotrophin in the luteal
phase has a beneficial effect on in vitro fertilisation.

PMCID: PMC1836668
PMID: 2503080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Jun;120(6):785-9.

Plasma GHRH, CRH, ACTH, beta-endorphin, human placental lactogen, GH and cortisol
concentrations at the third trimester of pregnancy.

Jeske W(1), Soszyński P, Rogoziński W, Lukaszewicz E, Latoszewska W, Snochowska
H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Medical Centre for Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland.

The aim of the study was to determine the concentration of GHRH and CRH in
maternal plasma during the 3rd trimester of pregnancy and to search for the
possible correlations with related hormones such as ACTH, beta-endorphin,
cortisol, GH and human placental lactogen. Patients consisted of 31 healthy
pregnant women (20-39 years) divided according to duration of pregnancy into 2
groups: I. from 26 to 32 pregnancy week N = 13), II. from 33 to 39 week (N = 18),
and of 7 women evaluated 3 days after delivery. All listed hormones except ACTH
were measured by RIA (GHRH, CRH and beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity after
extraction with silic acid) and ACTH by IRMA. In the late 3rd trimester plasma
levels of CRH (P less than 0.001), ACTH (P less than 0.02), beta-endorphin (P
less than 0.05), cortisol (P less than 0.025), as well as GHRH (P less than
0.002) and human placental lactogen (hPL) (P less than 0.001) were increased in
comparison to early 3rd trimester, whereas 3 days after delivery CRH and GHRH
became undetectable and those of ACTH and cortisol decreased significantly. The
CRH plasma concentrations were found to be strongly correlated with gestational
age (r = 0.86, P less than 0.001) but not with ACTH and cortisol. GHRH levels
correlated mainly with human placental lactogen concentrations (r = 0.64, P less 
than 0.001).CONCLUSION: In maternal plasma at the 3rd trimester of pregnancy,
apart from the known markedly elevated CRH, the GHRH level was also raised.
Strong correlations between CRH and gestational age and those between GHRH and
human placental lactogen suggest that there is a relationship between these
neurohormones and the placental function.

PMID: 2543179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Aichi Gakuin Daigaku Shigakkai Shi. 1989 Jun;27(2):359-81.

[Basic experiments on denture rigidity at various types of palatal bars].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka S.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the rigidity of removable partial
denture with a palatal bar. A metal model with a Kennedy Class II-modification 1,
was fabricated as a simulated dental arch. The model palate was adjustable to
three different radii (17.5 mm, 20.0 mm and 22.5 mm) on the frontal
section.MATERIALS: These were bending palatal bars and preformed plastic
patterns. One of the bending palatal bars was 3.4 mm wide 1.4 mm thick, the other
was 3.1 mm wide and 1.1 mm thick. Two other bars, 5.0 mm wide, 1.7 mm thick and
5.0 mm wide, 1.5 mm thick, were cast in Ticonium p-100 alloy from the plastic
pattern.
METHOD: The materials were fitted to the model and rigidity was measured by
loading at various parts equivalent to the distal extension base. The experiments
were performed with a 1 mm space between the frames and the model and again with 
a 1 mm thick sheet of mercaptan rubber-base impression material between them.
RESULTS: 1. Cast palatal bars showed a smaller deflection than the bending
palatal bars. 2. The bending palatal bars showed a large deflection of the distal
extension base. So, care should be exercised when fitting a bending palatalbar in
a distal extension case because of the incompressibility of the mucous membrane. 
3. Bar deflection was only slightly different for the three types of palate. 4.
Deflection of the palatal bar and distal extension base was smaller when the bar 
was thicker and wider. 5. The amounts of palatal bar and base deflection with the
1.0 mm space was in proportion to the load. 6. With the rubber-base sheet
between, the amounts of deflection was not proportional to the load, and the
amount of deflection under a 30 kg load was almost twice that of a 5 kg load.

PMID: 2700281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):787-90.

Pseudomonal and candidal peritonitis as a complication of continuous ambulatory
peritoneal dialysis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.

Dressler R(1), Peters AT, Lynn RI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York
10461.

PURPOSE: To our knowledge, there has been no report documenting the spectrum of
peritonitis in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected persons. We therefore 
analyzed our records to confirm our previous observation of a higher incidence of
pseudomonal and fungal peritonitis in a group of HIV antibody-positive (HIV+)
patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a 22-month period, we retrospectively studied 71
patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing CAPD. Of these, seven were HIV+,
five were at high risk for HIV infection but antibody-negative, and 59 were at
low risk for HIV infection. Organisms isolated in episodes of peritonitis were
classified microbiologically as one of the following: gram-positive,
non-pseudomonal gram-negative, pseudomonal, fungal, or culture-negative.
RESULTS: The total peritonitis rate was higher in both the high-risk (p less than
or equal to 0.01) and the HIV+ (p less than or equal to 0.02) groups when
compared with that in the low-risk population. These differences were
attributable to the following: (1) the high-risk group's two-fold increase in
gram-positive infections (p less than or equal to 0.01), and (2) a 24-fold
increase in pseudomonal (p less than 0.001) infections and seven-fold increase in
fungal (p less than 0.005) infections in the HIV+ group. These infections were
invariably associated with catheter loss and frequently resulted in conversion to
hemodialysis.
CONCLUSION: We believe that the use of CAPD in HIV+ patients may be limited by
this increased occurrence of pseudomonal and fungal peritonitis.

PMID: 2729340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):780-6.

Infections associated with Hickman catheters in patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Raviglione MC(1), Battan R, Pablos-Mendez A, Aceves-Casillas P, Mullen MP,
Taranta A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cabrini Medical Center, New York, New York 10003.

PURPOSE: Hickman catheters are frequently used as convenient long-term venous
access in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). These patients
seem to be at increased risk for bacterial infections of intravenous devices. The
aim of our study was to determine the frequency of Hickman catheter infection in 
patients with AIDS as compared with that in other patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed the records of 69 patients who underwent 71
consecutive Hickman catheter placements during a one-year study period.
RESULTS: Forty-six Hickman catheters were inserted in 44 patients with AIDS, and 
25 Hickman catheters were placed in 25 other patients. There were 18 infections: 
16 occurred in patients with AIDS, and two developed in the control group (p less
than 0.05). The 16 infections in AIDS were as follows: five exit site, five
septicemias, two tunnel, one septic phlebitis, and three probable Hickman
catheter-related. Staphylococcus aureus was responsible for 14 cases (87%);
Staphylococcus epidermidis was responsible for four cases (25%). Mean onset of
infection was 32 days, but seven patients were diagnosed in the first eight days 
after Hickman catheter insertion. Fever occurred in all patients with early
infection, leukopenia was present only in three; infusion of parenteral nutrition
did not increase the risk. Two early infections were fatal. The rate of Hickman
catheter infection in patients with AIDS was 0.47 per 100 catheter days, as
compared with 0.09 in the control group.
CONCLUSION: Our findings underscore the need for using Hickman catheters only
when absolutely indicated in patients with AIDS, since the risk of serious
infectious complications appears to be high.

PMID: 2729339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):776-9.

Community-acquired bacteremia in patients with acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome: clinical presentation, bacteriology, and outcome.

Krumholz HM(1), Sande MA, Lo B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, University of California 
94110.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Mar;88(3):319-20.
    Am J Med. 1990 Mar;88(3):314.

PURPOSE: Community-acquired bacteremia is an easily treatable infection occurring
in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Although other
studies have reported bacterial infections in AIDS patients, none have clearly
described the clinical presentation of these patients. In this survey, we sought 
to define how frequently AIDS patients presented to our institution with
community-acquired bacteremia; which organisms and sources of bacteremia were
involved; the frequency that these patients presented with abnormal vital signs
and white blood cell counts; and the in-hospital outcome of these patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively identified patients with AIDS
hospitalized at San Francisco General Hospital in the 16 months between August
1986 and December 1987 in whom a positive blood culture was drawn within 24 hours
of admission. Each of the patient's charts was reviewed for demographic data,
relevant past medical history, clinical admission information, laboratory data,
and discharge status.
RESULTS: We identified 44 episodes of community-acquired bacteremia in 38
patients with AIDS. These episodes represented approximately 5% of the admissions
of patients with AIDS. The patients were young (mean age, 38 +/- 7 years),
homosexual (43 of 44), and in some cases intravenous drug users (nine of 44). On 
admission, only 57% of the patients were febrile (temperature greater than 38.3
degrees C) and 23% of the patients presented with normal vital signs.
Twenty-seven percent were neutropenic (less than 1,000 neutrophils/mm3). The most
common sources of the bacteremia were pneumonia (10), an indwelling central
venous line (eight), and cellulitis (seven). A total of 14 patients had no
apparent source. Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Escherichia
coli were the most common organisms. Only four of the 44 patients died during
their hospitalization.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that patients with AIDS and community-acquired bacteremia
can present to the hospital without abnormal vital signs or white blood cell
counts. Clinicians cannot depend on these data to assist them in excluding the
possibility of bacteremia in patients with AIDS. In addition, due to the variety 
of organisms found in our survey, we recommend that broad-spectrum antibiotics
should be the empiric therapy in patients with a suspected bacterial infection.

PMID: 2729338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):771-5.

Natural history of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in women in Rhode Island.

Carpenter CC(1), Mayer KH, Fisher A, Desai MB, Durand L.

Author information: 
(1)Brown University AIDS Program, Providence, Rhode Island 02906.

PURPOSE: Current recommendations for treatment of human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) infection and for prophylaxis against associated opportunistic infections
in North America are largely based on observations of HIV infection in males. In 
an effort to determine whether the natural history and clinical course may be
different, with implications relevant to prophylaxis against opportunistic
infections, we have documented the clinical courses of the first 24 known cases
of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in women in Rhode Island, most of
whom developed Centers for Disease Control-defined AIDS before the availability
of an effective antiviral agent (i.e., zidovudine) or a well-defined approach to 
prophylaxis against opportunistic infections (e.g., oral trimethoprimsulfa).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects in this study are 24 women with AIDS who were 
treated by members of the Brown University medical faculty from June 1982 through
June 1988. All patients had thorough clinical evaluations and appropriate
laboratory studies as they became available. All were followed at intervals no
greater than two months. All opportunistic infections were treated by
appropriate, specific antimicrobial therapy. When zidovudine became available, it
was administered to all remaining patients in the study. All subjects were
counseled about HIV infection, its modes of transmission, and the early symptoms 
of opportunistic infections.
RESULTS: These observations yielded the following three major findings: (1)
Candida esophagitis was the most common (38%) AIDS-defining event; (2)
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was less frequently the AIDS-defining event (13%) 
and occurred less commonly during the illness (29%) than in North American males 
with AIDS; (3) Of 14 women in whom the diagnosis of AIDS was established before
January 1, 1987, the mean survival time after diagnosis was greater than 20
months.
CONCLUSION: More information on the natural history of HIV infection in North
American women is urgently needed. If more extensive data from other geographic
regions confirm the observations in this study, the optimal approach to
prophylaxis against opportunistic infections in women with AIDS may be
substantially different from that which is most appropriate for males.

PMID: 2729337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):663-7.

Prospective evaluation of transesophageal pacing for the interruption of atrial
flutter.

Crawford W(1), Plumb VJ, Epstein AE, Kay GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

PURPOSE: Although transesophageal pacing has been used successfully for the
interruption of cardiac arrhythmias, the efficacy of this technique for the
interruption of spontaneous atrial flutter remains poorly defined. The utility of
transesophageal pacing to interrupt atrial flutter that was persistent despite
standard antiarrhythmic drug therapy (mean duration: 70.3 days; range: one day to
more than 365 days) was studied prospectively in 39 consecutive patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: After written informed consent was obtained from each
patient, transesophageal pacing was performed with a programmable stimulator,
using the distal electrode as the cathode and the proximal electrode as the
anode. All patients continued to receive a type 1 antiarrhythmic drug or
amiodarone throughout the period of transesophageal pacing. The response to
transesophageal pacing was classified as follows: (1) direct conversion; (2)
indirect conversion; or (3) failure to interrupt atrial flutter.
RESULTS: The mean stimulus amplitude and pulse duration required for atrial
capture were 19.8 +/- 7.5 mA and 18.4 +/- 7.9 msec. Atrial flutter was
successfully converted to sinus rhythm by transesophageal pacing in 82% of
patients. In 38% of patients, atrial flutter was converted directly to sinus
rhythm without another intervening arrhythmia (direct conversion). The mean
pacing rate required for direct conversion was 341 +/- 27 beats/minute. In 44% of
patients, the cycle length of atrial flutter was accelerated to less than 180
msec or was converted to atrial fibrillation with spontaneous conversion to sinus
rhythm within 24 hours (mean 8.4 +/- 9.3 hours, indirect conversion). The mean
pacing rate inducing accelerated atrial flutter or transient atrial fibrillation 
was 372 +/- 61 beats/minute (p = NS compared to direct conversion). Atrial
flutter was not interrupted or atrial fibrillation was induced that did not
spontaneously convert to sinus rhythm within 24 hours in an additional seven
patients (18%). The underlying cardiac disease, age, previous drug therapy,
atrial size, atrial flutter cycle length, history of prior atrial fibrillation,
left ventricular function, and concomitant medical illnesses did not predict the 
efficacy of transesophageal pacing.
CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that transesophageal pacing is highly
effective for interrupting spontaneous atrial flutter that does not terminate
with standard antiarrhythmic drug therapy.

PMID: 2729317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):658-62.

Value of normal electrocardiographic findings in predicting resting left
ventricular function in patients with chest pain and suspected coronary artery
disease.

O'Keefe JH Jr(1), Zinsmeister AR, Gibbons RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

PURPOSE: Characterization of left ventricular function is important in managing
patients with coronary artery disease. Although many methods are available to
assess left ventricular function, most are either expensive, invasive, or both.
In this study, we examined the ability of normal or near-normal resting
electrocardiographic findings to predict resting left ventricular ejection
fraction, measured by resting radionuclide angiography, in 874 patients with
chest pain and suspected coronary artery disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was undertaken of 4,410 Mayo Clinic 
patients who underwent rest and exercise radionuclide ventriculography for the
evaluation of chest pain and known or suspected coronary artery disease; of
these, 874 patients met the inclusion criteria for the current study. A 15-lead
electrocardiogram, which was interpreted by the cardiologist or cardiology
trainee working in the laboratory, was obtained at the same evaluation as the
radionuclide study.
RESULTS: In 590 patients with no previous history of a myocardial infarction and 
entirely normal resting electrocardiographic results without nonspecific ST-T
wave abnormalities, the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.63 +/-
0.004, and 559 patients (95%) had a normal resting ejection fraction (defined as 
0.50 or more). Both nonspecific ST-T wave abnormalities (p less than 0.001) and, 
to a lesser degree, a history of myocardial infarction (p = 0.06) were
independent predictors of an abnormal resting ejection fraction. In 185 patients 
with nonspecific ST-T wave abnormalities and no history of myocardial infarction,
the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.61 +/- 0.009, and 85% had a
normal resting ejection fraction. In 36 patients with nonspecific ST-T wave
abnormalities and a history of myocardial infarction, the mean left ventricular
ejection fraction was 0.53 +/- 0.021, and 72% had a normal resting ejection
fraction.
CONCLUSION: Thus, an entirely normal result on a resting 12-lead
electrocardiogram in patients with suspected coronary disease but no history of a
previous myocardial infarction is a reliable (95%) predictor of normal left
ventricular function. If nonspecific ST-T wave abnormalities are noted,
particularly if there is a history of a previous infarction, the predictive value
of the electrocardiographic findings is diminished.

PMID: 2729316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):653-7.

Prior treatment with diuretic augments the hypokalemic and electrocardiographic
effects of inhaled albuterol.

Lipworth BJ(1), McDevitt DG, Struthers AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School,
Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: High doses of inhaled albuterol produce substantial improvements in
bronchodilatation but are associated with dose-related systemic side effects
including hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia. Concomitant diuretic therapy also
produces these metabolic sequelae and may therefore precipitate cardiac
arrhythmias in patients taking this combination of drugs. The purpose of this
study was to investigate the electrocardiographic (ECG) effects of high-dose
inhaled albuterol, and to evaluate whether potentiation occurs with
bendrofluazide.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten normal subjects (mean age [+/- SEM]: 29 +/- 2 years,
four women, six men) received seven days of treatment with either bendrofluazide 
5 mg or identical placebo in a single-blind, randomized, cross-over design, with 
a 10-day washout period. After each treatment period, responses (potassium,
magnesium, ECG) to cumulative doubling doses of inhaled albuterol (100 micrograms
to 2,000 micrograms) were measured.
RESULTS: Baseline potassium levels (mean and 95% confidence intervals) were lower
after pretreatment with bendrofluazide compared with placebo (3.07 mmol/L [2.89
to 3.25 mmol/L] versus 3.78 mmol/L [3.62 to 3.93 mmol/L]; p less than 0.001). The
combination of bendrofluazide and albuterol produced a lower absolute level of
potassium than did placebo and albuterol: (2.72 mmol/L [2.50 to 2.95 mmol/L]
versus 3.18 mmol/L [3.09 to 3.27 mmol/L]; p less than 0.001). Mean (+/- SEM)
potassium fell to a lower level with bendrofluazide and albuterol in women than
in men (2.45 +/- 0.04 mmol/L versus 2.90 +/- 0.13 mmol/L; p less than 0.005).
Albuterol alone produced a small but significant fall in magnesium (0.842 mmol/L 
[0.815 to 0.869 mmol/L] to 0.789 mmol/L [0.757 to 0.820 mmol/L]; p less than
0.001), but no further change after bendrofluazide. Pretreatment with
bendrofluazide increased the frequency (p less than 0.001) and amplitude (p less 
than 0.05) of U waves due to albuterol. Albuterol also attenuated T-wave
amplitude (p less than 0.001) and prolonged the Q-Tc interval (p less than
0.001), with no additive effect from bendrofluazide. ST-segment depression (p
less than 0.001) occurred in five subjects who inhaled albuterol.
CONCLUSION: These findings show that treatment with bendrofluazide augments the
hypokalemic and ECG effects of high-dose inhaled albuterol. The arrhythmogenic
potential of this interaction may be important in patients with acute
exacerbations of chronic airflow obstruction, who have concomitant hypoxemia and 
ischemic heart disease.

PMID: 2729315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):649-52.

Dosing of contrast material to prevent contrast nephropathy in patients with
renal disease.

Cigarroa RG(1), Lange RA, Williams RH, Hillis LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Cardiovascular Division), University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.

PURPOSE: Contrast-induced renal dysfunction has been reported to occur in 15% to 
42% of patients with underlying azotemia, but there is disagreement as to whether
its incidence is reduced by limiting the amount of contrast material. To adjust
the amount of contrast material to the severity of azotemia, we have utilized the
following formula to calculate a contrast material "limit" in patients with renal
disease: Contrast material limit = (formula; see text)
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Over a 10-year period, 115 patients (53 men, 62 women, aged
61 +/- 11 [mean +/- SD] years) with renal dysfunction (baseline serum creatinine 
level greater than or equal to 1.8 mg/dL) underwent cardiac catheterization and
angiography, after which the level of serum creatinine was measured daily for
five days. The amount of contrast material that was given adhered to the limit in
86 patients (Group I) and exceeded it in 29 (Group II).
RESULTS: Contrast-induced renal dysfunction (an increase in serum creatinine
greater than or equal to 1.0 mg/dL) occurred in two (2%) patients in Group I and 
in six (21%) patients in Group II (p less than 0.001). Of the 48 patients with
concomitant diabetes mellitus, the contrast limit was surpassed in 16, six (38%) 
of whom had contrast nephropathy. Only two of the 32 (6%) diabetic patients in
whom the contrast limit was not exceeded had contrast nephropathy (p less than
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Thus, contrast-induced renal dysfunction occurs infrequently if the 
amount of contrast material is limited in accordance with the degree of azotemia.
Diabetic patients have a high incidence of contrast nephropathy, particularly
when they receive an excessive amount of contrast. In patients with diabetes and 
renal impairment, it may be preferable to perform angiography as a staged
procedure or to utilize alternative (non-contrast) techniques to obtain the
desired information rather than to exceed the prescribed contrast limit.

PMID: 2729314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):645-8.

Attitudes of hospitalized patients toward life support: a survey of 200 medical
inpatients.

Frankl D(1), Oye RK, Bellamy PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine 90024-1685.

PURPOSE: Life-support decisions have profound medical, ethical, and economic
implications; yet little is known about inpatients' preferences for
life-sustaining treatments. We therefore conducted a prospective survey of
medical inpatients to determine attitudes toward life support under differing
medical outcomes, and the extent of physician communication about these issues.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 200 adult patients
admitted to the general medical services at UCLA Medical Center during August and
September 1987. Each patient completed a standardized 13-item questionnaire.
Patients rated their agreement with life-support treatment in the context of four
outcome scenarios. A five-point Lickert scale for each question was used, and an 
overall life-support scale was created by summing the four items. Patients were
also asked about previous life-support discussions with their physicians.
RESULTS: Life support was desired in 90 percent of the patients if their health
could be restored to its usual level, in 30 percent if they would be unable to
care for themselves after discharge, in 16 percent if their chance for recovery
was hopeless, and in only 6 percent if they would remain in a vegetative state.
Patients who desired less aggressive care were older, female, and more likely to 
have terminal illnesses. Only 16 percent reported having discussed life support
with their physicians; however, an additional 47 percent desired such
discussions.
CONCLUSION: Hospitalized medical patients base their preferences for life support
upon perceived outcomes. Lack of communication creates the potential for patients
to be subjected to burdensome and expensive treatments they may not desire. We
encourage physicians to offer their patients discussions about prognosis and the 
efficacy of life support so that disproportionate treatments can be avoided.

PMID: 2729313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):809-13.

Prospective study of amikacin versus netilmicin in the treatment of severe
infection in hospitalized patients.

Noone M(1), Pomeroy L, Sage R, Noone P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Royal Free Hospital, Hampstead, London, United
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Four previous studies comparing netilmicin and amikacin have yielded
inconclusive results concerning efficacy and rates of nephrotoxicity and
ototoxicity. For this reason, we conducted a prospective, randomized, controlled 
trial of the two drugs in the treatment of hospitalized patients with severe
infection.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 202 patients were enrolled in the study; 100
received netilmicin and 102 received amikacin. Concomitant antimicrobials were
restricted to metronidazole and benzylpenicillin. Peak and trough aminoglycoside 
levels were assayed within the first 36 hours and at least every 72 hours
thereafter. A full blood cell count, serum electrolytes, creatinine, bilirubin,
and liver enzymes were measured before therapy, weekly thereafter, and within 48 
hours after the discontinuation of therapy. Nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity were
assessed in patients. A standard agar dilution procedure was used to determine
minimal inhibitory concentrations.
RESULTS: No significant pretreatment differences were found between the two
groups. Patients in the amikacin group responded significantly better to
treatment than did patients in the netilmicin group (90% versus 79%; p less than 
0.05). A notable finding was the markedly inferior response rate of Pseudomonas
aeruginosa infections to netilmicin as compared with amikacin (13 of 24 with a
favorable response compared with 25 of 26). No significant difference in
ototoxicity was found, whereas nephrotoxicity appeared to be significantly less
with amikacin (4% versus 12%, p less than 0.05). Although amikacin seemed less
nephrotoxic than netilmicin, this may have been related to the significantly
greater number of patients with initial renal dysfunction who received
netilmicin.
CONCLUSIONS: Amikacin appears to be significantly more efficacious than
netilmicin for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infections, especially those in
non-urinary tract sites. There is no apparent difference between the two drugs in
terms of ototoxicity.

PMID: 2658582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):801-8.

Therapy of lower extremity infections with ciprofloxacin in patients with
diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, or both.

Peterson LR(1), Lissack LM, Canter K, Fasching CE, Clabots C, Gerding DN.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Service, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55417.

PURPOSE: Lower extremity infections in the presence vascular insufficiency are
difficult and costly to treat. Few well-controlled clinical trials evaluating the
management of these infections exist. We decided to investigate the ability of a 
new fluoroquinolone, ciprofloxacin, to reduce the morbidity associated with these
infections and the amount of in-hospital time required for the administration of 
antibiotic therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-eight patients with peripheral vascular disease (46
with diabetes mellitus) who presented to the hospital for treatment of lower
extremity infections were randomized in a blinded fashion to receive oral
ciprofloxacin at a dosage of either 750 mg or 1,000 mg twice daily. Patients with
osteomyelitis received three months of therapy and those with infections limited 
to soft tissues, three weeks of ciprofloxacin treatment. All subjects were
followed for one year.
RESULTS: One patient received an amputation 24 hours after enrollment, and two
patients discontinued therapy after 20 and 34 days because of adverse effects and
were not evaluable. At the one-year follow-up, 27 of the 45 (60 percent)
evaluable patients had a fully successful outcome defined as not requiring either
repeat antimicrobial therapy for their initial infection or amputation of the
involved extremity. In the group of 18 patients in whom therapy failed, a total
of only nine amputations were required. In the 15 patients whose lesion closed
during therapy, 93% (14 patients) experienced a long-term successful outcome.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with this new fluoroquinolone offers promise for the
improved outcome of patients with the serious infectious complication of infected
lower extremity ulcerations in peripheral vascular disease, diabetes mellitus, or
both.

PMID: 2658581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):673-7.

Effect of the somatostatin analogue SMS-201-995 on the adrenergic response to
glucose ingestion in patients with postprandial hypotension.

Hoeldtke RD(1), Dworkin GE, Gaspar SR, Israel BC, Boden G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

PURPOSE: The somatostatin analogue SMS-201-995 has recently been introduced as a 
new therapy for postprandial hypotension in patients with autonomic neuropathy.
The present study was performed to determine the effect of SMS-201-995 on the
adrenergic response to glucose ingestion in patients with this disorder.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eleven patients with postprandial hypotension were studied:
six with central autonomic dysfunction (multiple system atrophy) and five with
peripheral sympathetic dysfunction (progressive autonomic failure). Patients
received either a subcutaneous injection of SMS-201-995 or a placebo injection,
immediately before administration of a 50-g glucose drink. Each treatment was
given on separate, consecutive days in a randomized fashion.
RESULTS: Glucose ingestion caused a decrease in blood pressure (from 82 +/- 6 mm 
Hg to 66 +/- 7 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and an increase in plasma norepinephrine 
level (165 +/- 20 pg/mL to 305 +/- 85 pg/mL, p less than 0.01) in five patients
with progressive autonomic failure. Administration of SMS-201-995 prevented both 
the decline in blood pressure and the increase in norepinephrine. By contrast,
glucose ingestion elicited no increase in plasma norepinephrine levels despite
profound hypotension (average postprandial mean blood pressure, 55 +/- 3 mm Hg)
in six patients with multiple system atrophy. Administration of SMS-201-995
prevented postprandial hypotension in these patients, but had no effect on plasma
norepinephrine.
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that the pressor effect of SMS-201-995 is
independent of the sympathetic nervous system in patients with multiple system
atrophy, but may suppress the adrenergic response to glucose ingestion in
patients with progressive autonomic failure.

PMID: 2658575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):668-72.

Empiric antifungal therapy in febrile granulocytopenic patients. EORTC
International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group.

[No authors listed]

PURPOSE: The optimal management of fever in granulocytopenic patients remains
controversial. Invasive fungal infections are common and life-threatening but are
difficult to diagnose early. In this randomized study, we investigated the
potential value of empiric administration of amphotericin B (versus no empiric
antifungal therapy) in 132 patients remaining febrile and granulocytopenic
despite broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy for four days.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The patients were divided into two groups: 68 who were
randomly assigned to receive empiric amphotericin B, and 64 who were randomly
assigned to continue only the protocol antibiotics that they were already
receiving. Amphotericin B was administered intravenously as follows: every other 
day at a dose of 1.2 mg/kg body weight or daily at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg body
weight. Clinical response was evaluated as success or failure, depending upon the
febrile course after randomization.
RESULTS: Based on the evolution of fever, the response rate was 69% in the group 
of patients receiving empiric amphotericin B and 53% for the other group (p =
0.09). There were six documented (four severe) fungal infections in 64 patients
randomized not to receive the antifungal therapy as compared to only one fungemia
among 68 patients treated empirically with amphotericin B (p = 0.1). No deaths
due to fungal infection occurred among the patients receiving empiric
amphotericin B compared to four in the other group (p = 0.05). However, this
study did not demonstrate a difference in survival between the two groups of
patients (with or without empiric amphotericin B). The benefit of empiric
administration of amphotericin B was primarily observed in specific subgroups of 
patients, such as those who did not receive any antifungal prophylaxis (78%
versus 45%, p = 0.04), those who were severely granulocytopenic (69% versus 46%, 
p = 0.06), febrile patients with a clinically documented infection (75% versus
41%, p = 0.03), and patients older than 15 years of age (67% versus 47%, p =
0.06).
CONCLUSION: These data suggest a benefit for early amphotericin B treatment in
granulocytopenic patients with continued fever despite antibiotic therapy.

PMID: 2658574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 2):791-800.

Treatment of invasive aspergillosis with itraconazole.

Denning DW(1), Tucker RM, Hanson LH, Stevens DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, California
95128.

PURPOSE: Invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompromised host is one of the most 
difficult therapeutic problems. Itraconazole, a new oral triazole, is inhibitory 
as well as fungicidal against Aspergillus species in vitro. It is active against 
Aspergillus infections in animal models. We present our experience with
itraconazole therapy of 21 patients with aspergillosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighteen of the 21 patients received 400 mg of itraconazole
orally per day; the other three received 100 to 200 mg daily. Serum
concentrations of itraconazole were measured and susceptibility testing was
performed according to previously described methods.
RESULTS: Of 15 evaluable patients, responses were produced in 12. Four of five
with invasive pulmonary disease, two of two with skeletal disease, one of two
with pleural disease, one of one with pericardial, sinus, mastoid, or
hepatosplenic aspergillosis, and one of one with onychomycosis responded. One
patient with carotid artery disease did not show a response, although results of 
cultures were negative at autopsy. One responder with joint disease had a
possible relapse three months after completing 12 months of therapy. Ten of these
patients were immunocompromised (including four with neutropenia and two renal
transplant recipients) and eight of these responded. Side effects with
itraconazole, in contrast to previously available therapy, were rare.
CONCLUSION: This experience suggests itraconazole may be an important advance in 
the therapy of aspergillosis.

PMID: 2543220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Am J Med. 1989 Jun;86(6 Pt 1):678-84.

Comparative assessment of ACTH and lipotropin plasma levels in the diagnosis and 
follow-up of patients with Cushing's syndrome: a study of 210 cases.

Kuhn JM(1), Proeschel MF, Seurin DJ, Bertagna XY, Luton JP, Girard FL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Explorations Fonctionnelles Endocriniennes, hôpital Trousseau,
Paris, France.

PURPOSE: A series of 210 patients with Cushing's syndrome was evaluated at a
single center to assess the relative values of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)
and lipotropin (LPH) plasma levels in the etiologic diagnosis of Cushing's
syndrome and in the follow-up of treated Cushing's diseases.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: These patients included 149 patients with Cushing's
diseases, 20 with adrenal tumors, and 41 with ectopic ACTH/LPH syndromes. Hormone
levels were measured before therapy and during the follow-up of treated Cushing's
diseases.
RESULTS: ACTH and LPH plasma levels were moderately elevated in Cushing's
diseases, low or undetectable in adrenal tumors, and highly elevated in ectopic
ACTH/LPH syndromes, but the overlap between the three etiologic groups was less
for LPH than for ACTH. LPH appeared to be as sensitive as ACTH in evaluating the 
outcome of trans-sphenoidal surgery and in detecting the occurrence of Nelson's
syndrome after bilateral adrenalectomy.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, plasma LPH determinations provide a better index than ACTH
measurements, probably for technical reasons as well as because of the greater
stability of LPH in blood.

PMID: 2543219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Am J Physiol. 1989 Jun;256(6 Pt 2):F1094-103.

Effects of luminal Na+ on single Na+ channels in A6 cells, a regulatory role for 
protein kinase C.

Ling BN(1), Eaton DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30322.

Na+ "self-inhibition" in tight epithelia describes the reduction in apical Na+
permeability observed with increasing luminal Na+ concentration. Patch clamp was 
used to examine regulation of self-inhibition at the level of single Na+
channels. After cell-attached patches (pipette solution, 129 mM NaCl) were
obtained on amphibian distal nephron cells (A6), the 129 mM NaCl (high Na+)
apical bath outside of the patch was replaced with 3 mM NaCl (low Na+). Within
minutes there was an increase in open channel probability (Po) and the appearance
of one to five "new" channels in patch membranes. A similar increase occurred
when apical Na+ entry was blocked by luminal amiloride (10 microM). A23187 (1
microM), a calcium ionophore, added after low Na+ exchange, abolished the rise in
channel activity. Increased Po and new channels, induced by either luminal Na+ or
amiloride, were also reversed by either 4B-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA; 
0.1 microM) or 1-oleyl-2-acetyl glycerol (OAG; 10 microM) over 15-30 min. 4
alpha-Phorbol (0.1 microM), an inactive phorbol, did not reduce channel activity.
D-Sphingosine (100 microM), a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, increased Po and 
new channels.CONCLUSIONS: 1) modulation of apical Na+ permeability by luminal Na+
does not require direct interaction of Na+ with the channel protein but, rather, 
appears to involve an intracellular regulatory pathway, 2) relieving
self-inhibition alters both the number and kinetics of single Na+ channels, 3)
the effect of low Na+ must be modulated via decreased apical Na+ entry and
intracellular Na+, since amiloride yielded similar results, 4) changes in
intracellular Na+ probably affect Na+ channel activity via cytosolic Ca2+, 5) the
effects of decreasing luminal Na+ are reversed by PKC activators and mimicked by 
PKC inhibitors suggesting a possible role for PKC in Na+ self-inhibition.

PMID: 2544105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Anaesthesist. 1989 Jun;38(6):288-93.

[Vecuronium bromide and succinylcholine procedures in medial relaxation. A
comparison of electromyography and clinical findings].

[Article in German]

Leyser KH(1), Konietzke D, Hennes HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie der Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

Clinical and electromyographic effects of either succinylcholine (Suc) or
vecuronium bromide (VEC) were compared during induction and maintenance of
neuromuscular blockade for pelvic laparoscopy.METHODS: Forty ASA class I and II
patients (pat.) were studied under general anesthesia with thiopental, enflurane,
and nitrous oxide. Group VEC-pat. (n = 20) received 0.015 mg/kg body wt. VEC as
priming and 5 min later 0.085 mg/kg as intubation doses. Repetitive doses of 0.01
mg/kg were injected to maintain twitch depression (T1%) less than or equal to
15%. Neuromuscular block was reversed with atropine and pyridostigmine (0.01
resp. 0.1 mg/kg). In group Suc-pat. relaxation was induced with 1.5 mg/kg Suc 5
min after pretreatment with 2 mg alcuronium. Relaxation (10% less than or equal
to T1% less than or equal to 15%) was prolonged using a Suc infusion.
Neuromuscular blockade was assessed electromyographically (Relaxograph, Datex)
using train-of-four (TOF) stimulation (2 Hz for 2 s). Intubation conditions were 
scored according to Fahey et al.
RESULTS: Pretreatment with 0.015 mg/kg VEC compared to 2 mg alcuronium led to a
more pronounced decline in T1% and TOF-ratio (P less than 0.001). The time
interval between injection of the intubation dose and complete relaxation (T1%
less than or equal to 5%) was shorter in group Suc- than in VEC-pat. (P less than
0.001). Suc provides better intubation conditions than VEC (P less than 0.05).
Recovery from muscle relaxation was faster in Suc- than in VEC-pat. (P less than 
0.001). During Suc infusion in 8 patients a phase-II block (TOF ratio less than
or equal to 30%) was observed.
DISCUSSION: Postoperative problems are often related to an unrecognized after
effects of relaxants. Suc infusion leads to a remarkable number of phase-II
blocks, whereas VEC can be antagonized promptly.

PMID: 2569848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):901-15.

Hypertension in elderly patients.

Applegate WB.

Author information: 
University of Tennessee, Memphis.

PURPOSE: To synthesize and analyze new information on the epidemiology,
pathophysiology, and management of hypertension in the elderly to guide
physicians making treatment decisions.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: An English-language literature search using MEDLINE
(1972-1988) and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and review articles.
STUDY SELECTION: Primary research articles on the epidemiology, pathophysiology, 
and management of hypertension in the elderly were reviewed. Particular emphasis 
was placed on large randomized clinical trials.
DATA EXTRACTION: Study design and quality were assessed, with particular
attention to subject selection, sample size, definition of outcome variables, and
applicability of the results to management of the elderly hypertensive patient.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Epidemiologic studies confirm that elevated systolic
blood pressure in the elderly is more highly correlated with subsequent
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality than is elevation of diastolic blood
pressure. Results of several large randomized trials of the treatment of
diastolic hypertension in elderly patients indicate that treatment is beneficial,
at least up to age 80. For instance, the European Working Party on Hypertension
in the Elderly reported that drug treatment resulted in a significant relative
reduction (27%) in overall cardiovascular mortality, or an absolute reduction of 
29 fewer cardiovascular events per 1000 person-years of treatment. Data from
well-designed studies are not available to make a definitive statement about the 
treatment of isolated systolic hypertension.
CONCLUSION: The cardiovascular risk reduction from treating mild to moderate
diastolic hypertension in the elderly is significant, but the magnitude of
absolute risk reduction is not so great that treatment should invariably be
pursued if serious side effects cannot be avoided.

PMID: 2655523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):873-81.

Intestinal decontamination for control of nosocomial multiresistant gram-negative
bacilli. Study of an outbreak in an intensive care unit.

Brun-Buisson C(1), Legrand P, Rauss A, Richard C, Montravers F, Besbes M, Meakins
JL, Soussy CJ, Lemaire F.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Henri Mondor, Creteil, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of intestinal decontamination by oral
nonabsorbable antibiotic agents to control a nosocomial outbreak of intestinal
colonization and infection with multiresistant Enterobacteriaceae, and to examine
its effects on endemic nosocomial infection rates.
DESIGN: A 10-week prospective incidence study (group 1), and then an 8-week
randomized, open trial of intestinal decontamination (groups 2 and 3).
SETTING: A medical intensive care unit of a tertiary care university hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive patients with unit stay of over 2 days and a severity score
at admission of more than 2; 124 patients were included in group 1, 50 in group 2
(control), and 36 in group 3 (intestinal decontamination).
INTERVENTIONS: Neomycin, polymyxin E, and nalidixic acid were given to group 3
patients throughout their stay in the unit.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Intestinal colonization with multiresistant
strains occurred in 19.6% of patients in group 1, at a mean of 16 days after
admission, and preceded detection in clinical samples by a mean of 11 days.
During the decontamination trial, intestinal colonization rates decreased to 10% 
(group 2), and 3% (group 3) (P = 0.12 and P less than 0.01, compared with group
1, respectively). Corresponding infection rates were 9% (group 1), 3% (group 2), 
and 0 (group 3). No new cases were detected in the following 4 months. The
intestinal colonization rate with gram-positive cocci was higher in group 3 than 
group 2 (P less than 0.001). The overall rate of nosocomial infections was at 28%
(group 1), 33% (group 2), and 32% (group 3).
CONCLUSIONS: Intestinal decontamination can help to control an outbreak of
intestinal colonization and infection with multiresistant gram-negative bacilli
in the intensive care unit, but should not be recommended for routine prevention 
of endemic nosocomial infections.

PMID: 2655521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):867-72.

Adiposity, fat distribution, and cardiovascular risk.

Peiris AN(1), Sothmann MS, Hoffmann RG, Hennes MI, Wilson CR, Gustafson AB,
Kissebah AH.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative importance of adiposity and fat
distribution to cardiovascular risk profile.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Clinical research center funded by the National Institutes of Health.
PATIENTS: Convenience sample of 33 healthy premenopausal women with a wide range 
of body weight who did not have diabetes mellitus, hirsutism and virilism,
gynecologic disorder, cardiac disease, or hypertension. Women participating in
exercise or dietary programs or taking medication were excluded. All subjects
completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Total body fat mass was determined by hydrostatic weighting, and
fat distribution was assessed by subscapular skinfold thickness,
subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ratio, the waist-to-hip ratio, and computed
tomography. Cardiovascular risk was assessed by the serum insulin response during
oral glucose stimulation; levels of triglycerides and total cholesterol;
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol to total cholesterol concentrations; and
systolic and diastolic blood pressures.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The anthropometric parameters chosen were
significantly associated with the cardiovascular risk profile (P less than
0.001). Visceral fat distribution assessed by computed tomography accounted for a
significantly greater degree of variance in the cardiovascular risk factors than 
the total body fat mass (P less than 0.05). The cumulative insulin response was
the primary metabolic variable relating the anthropometric indices to
cardiovascular risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Intra-abdominal fat deposition constitutes a greater cardiovascular 
risk than obesity alone. Hyperinsulinemia may constitute an important component
of the increased cardiovascular risk of abdominal obesity.

PMID: 2655520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):859-66.

Combining clinical and thallium data optimizes preoperative assessment of cardiac
risk before major vascular surgery.

Eagle KA(1), Coley CM, Newell JB, Brewster DC, Darling RC, Strauss HW, Guiney TE,
Boucher CA.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether clinical markers and preoperative
dipyridamole-thallium imaging are both useful in predicting ischemic events after
vascular surgery.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational study.
SETTING: University medical center.
PATIENTS: Two hundred fifty-four consecutive patients referred to a nuclear
cardiology laboratory before surgery. Forty-four patients had surgery cancelled
or postponed after clinical evaluation and dipyridamole-thallium imaging. Surgery
was not confirmed for ten. Two hundred patients receiving prompt vascular surgery
were the study group.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Thirty patients (15%) had early postoperative
cardiac ischemic events, with cardiac death in 6 (3%) and nonfatal myocardial
infarction in 9 (4.5%). Logistic regression identified five clinical predictors
(Q waves, history of ventricular ectopic activity, diabetes, advanced age,
angina) and two dipyridamole-thallium predictors of postoperative events. Of
patients with none of the clinical variables (n = 64), only 2 (3.1%; 95% CI, 0%
to 8%) had ischemic events with no cardiac deaths. Ten of twenty (50%; 95% CI,
29% to 71%) patients with three or more clinical markers had events. Eighteen of 
one hundred sixteen (15.5%; 95% CI, 7% to 21%) patients with either 1 or 2
clinical predictors had events. Within this group, 2 of 62 (3.2%; 95% CI, 0% to
8%) patients without thallium redistribution had events compared with 16 events
in 54 patients (29.6%; 95% CI, 16% to 44%) with thallium redistribution. The
multivariate model using both clinical and thallium variables showed
significantly higher specificity at equivalent sensitivity levels than models
using either clinical or thallium variables alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative dipyridamole-thallium imaging appears most useful to
stratify vascular patients determined to be at intermediate risk by clinical
evaluation. For patients with one or two clinical predictors, thallium
redistribution correlates with substantial change in probability of events. For
nearly half the patients, however, thallium imaging may have been unnecessary
because of very high or low cardiac risk predicted by clinical information alone.

PMID: 2655519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):882-7.

Development of clinically recognizable genital lesions among women previously
identified as having "asymptomatic" herpes simplex virus type 2 infection.

Langenberg A(1), Benedetti J, Jenkins J, Ashley R, Winter C, Corey L.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if patients initially identified by history,
clinical examination, and serologic status as having asymptomatic herpes simplex 
virus type 2 infection report clinically recognizable genital lesions after
having a detailed instructional session on the clinical signs and symptoms of
genital herpes.
DESIGN: Prospective follow-up of two groups of women.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic of an urban city-county hospital.
PATIENTS: Two populations of women were recruited. One group was referred because
they had documented asymptomatic genital herpes or were suspected of
asymptomatically transmitting genital herpes to a sex partner. The other group
was recruited from the hospital's general gynecologic clinic and consisted of
women with herpes simplex virus type 2 antibodies who denied a history of genital
herpes.
INTERVENTION: Patients had a one-on-one interview describing the clinical
symptoms of genital herpes.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twelve of nineteen women with herpes simplex virus
type 2 antibodies who had documented asymptomatic genital herpes or were
suspected of asymptomatically transmitting infection to a sex partner, and 18 of 
43 women with herpes simplex virus type 2 antibodies who were recruited from the 
gynecologic clinic developed clinically recognizable genital lesions during a
5-month follow-up. Symptomatic genital herpes was the most frequent gynecologic
complaint identified during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 50% of women with herpes simplex virus type 2
antibodies who do not initially report a history of genital lesions do indeed
have clinically symptomatic genital herpes. These women can be accurately
counseled and taught to distinguish genital herpes from other genitourinary
infections. Identification of symptomatic recurrences and counseling to avoid
sexual activity during these episodes may help reduce transmission of genital
herpes.

PMID: 2541645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Helv Chir Acta. 1989 Jun;56(1-2):169-73.

[The pathomorphology of the liver after unilateral hepatic duct obstruction with 
laboratory-chemical observations of the course in the dog].

[Article in German]

Ruf G, Mappes HJ, Lausen M, Schöffel U, Koch H, Farthmann EH.

In an experimental study the morphological and functional changes of the liver
with unilateral hepatic duct obstruction were investigated over a period of 13
months. In 4 series different parts of the liver were excluded of the bile
drainage by hepatic duct ligation after cholecystectomy (group I = 25%, group II 
= 50%, group III 75%, group IV = 100% of the liver, series V = control group was 
cholecystectomy only. The clinical outcome, biochemical parameters, liver biopsy 
were examined regularly. Bacteriologic investigation of the bile and hepatic flow
measurement were performed at the beginning and at the end of the study.RESULTS: 
The clinical symptoms were discrete and the biochemical parameters showed a
typical course. After 6 weeks, atrophy of the excluded liver with contralateral
compensatoric hypertrophy was found. The microscopic correlation was the
secondary sclerosing cholangitis (SSC). After 6 weeks, a concentric periductal
fibrosis was to be observed in the periportal area. After 12 weeks, bile duct
vanishing with persistence of the arteries and veins was found. After 36-48
weeks, biliary cirrhosis and total destruction of the liver parenchyma was found 
respectively. Simultaneously a chronic disturbance of the hepatic perfusion was
seen. It was caused by a perivenous fibrosis of the terminal vein with
obliteration of the lumen by endangiitic proliferations and cavernous
transformation. The genesis of SSC seemed not be be influenced by bile
contamination. The ligated as well as the unligated bile ducts were infected in
20-50% only. There was no difference in the liver specimens with sterile or
contaminated bile. The hepatic flow measurement showed a reduction of the portal 
blood flow and a rise of the arterial flow depending on the amount of the
excluded liver. A better understanding of the pathophysiological sequelae of the 
unilateral hepatic duct obstruction suggests that the drainage by surgical or
radiological methods may not invariably be necessary.

PMID: 2777599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Helv Chir Acta. 1989 Jun;56(1-2):15-7.

[Long-term results following conservative and surgical treatment of infantile
hypertrophic pyloric stenosis].

[Article in German]

Lüdtke FE, Bertus M, Voth E, Lepsien G.

From 1960 to 1970, 314 children (male:female = 3.9:1) were treated in our
hospital for infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) (group 1 operatively:
n = 216; group 2 conservatively: n = 98). The aim of the present study was to
evaluate whether patients with IHPS do frequently have complaints in the upper
gastrointestinal tract at long term.RESULTS: 1. Using the patients' files, a
retrospective analysis of the familiar predisposition, symptoms, course of
treatment and duration of ward treatment was made. Mortality due to operation was
0%, the postoperative rate of complications was low. 2. 17-27 years after
treatment, the patients were questioned as to their subsequent health. 175
returned questionnaires able to be evaluated. According to these, only few of
these patients had the symptoms of delayed gastric emptying (frequent vomiting,
nausea). The velocity of gastric emptying has been measured for 53 patients for
both solids and fluids (2.2 MBq 99mTc Sn colloid in a standard solid meal or in
300 ml of apple juice). There was no significant difference between the two
groups, and the results were comparable to normal controls.
CONCLUSION: Surgical therapy is superior to the conservative one, since the
patient feels better sooner, complications are seldom and correspond with the
long-term results of conservative therapy.

PMID: 2777596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Jun;43(2):125-32.

Environmental factors and symptoms in infants at high risk of allergy.

Burr ML(1), Miskelly FG, Butland BK, Merrett TG, Vaughan-Williams E.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Epidemiology Unit, Cardiff.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1990 Jun;44(2):174.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To identify environmental determinants of six symptoms
associated with allergic disease in infancy.
DESIGN: Infants were participants in a prospective randomised controlled trial of
feeding practices in families with a history of atopy.
SETTING: Infants were recruited in two maternity hospitals in S Wales and
followed up in the community for 1 year.
PARTICIPANTS: Mothers of 519 infants agreed to participate, but 36 were excluded 
(mainly for moving home or failing to attend for follow-up), leaving 483 in the
study (253 male, 230 female). Infants were followed up and examined for evidence 
of allergic disease at 3, 6, and 12 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At each examination, mothers were questioned about
episodes of illness in the infant, and the data presented relate to (reported and
observed) eczema and nasal discharge, and (reported) wheeze, prolonged colds,
diarrhoea and vomiting. Mothers kept a diary with details of feeding for the
first 6 months. All homes were visited by a nurse who took samples of dust for
dust mite antigen analysis. Extensive socio-demographic data were collected. None
of the factors studied showed a convincing relationship with eczema. In a
multiple logistic regression analysis breast feeding appeared to protect against 
wheeze, nasal discharge, colds, vomiting and diarrhoea. Having more siblings
increased the likelihood of prolonged colds, and (together with overcrowding) of 
wheeze and nasal discharge. Maternal smoking and low social class were associated
with wheeze, and house dust antigen with prolonged colds. Respiratory symptoms
were associated with some aspects of housing but these could not be distinguished
clearly from other social factors. Babies born in Autumn were at increased risk
of wheeze, vomiting and diarrhoea.
CONCLUSIONS: Environmental factors play an important part in determining risk of 
symptoms in potentially atopic babies. These factors are in principle open to
manipulation.

PMCID: PMC1052814
PMID: 2687426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Jun;43(2):173-8.

The use of hormonal replacement therapy and the risk of stroke and myocardial
infarction in women.

Thompson SG(1), Meade TW, Greenberg G.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Epidemiology and Medical Care Unit, Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow,
Middlesex, UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there is an association between the use of 
hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) and the risk of stroke and myocardial
infarction (MI).
DESIGN: A case-control study of women with stroke or MI was undertaken.
SETTING: The cases were notified from 83 general practices to the coordinating
centre at Northwick Park Hospital, where the diagnoses were independently
confirmed.
SUBJECTS: The cases, 603 white women aged 45-69, were each matched to two
controls for age and general practitioner. Of the controls, 79% were the first
eligible, 15% the second eligible and 6% were obtained at the third or more
attempt.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A research nurse completed a questionnaire for
each case and both controls, which included information obtained from the medical
notes on the prescriptions of HRT. An independent quality control check on the
selection of controls and on the abstraction of information from the medical
notes was made. More than one HRT prescription had been given to 109 cases (18%) 
and 174 controls (14%), showing a weak association between the risk of stroke and
MI and the past use of HRT (relative risk [RR] 1.36, 95% confidence interval [CI]
1.01-1.81). There was a stronger association with preparations contained
progestogen alone (RR 1.90, 95% CI 1.11-3.25). On average, HRT had been used 9
years before recruitment to the study and for 15 months. However, the observed
gradients of risk according to the duration of HRT use and time since HRT use do 
not support a causal interpretation. Also, the estimated relative risks were
reduced when allowance was made for other cardiovascular risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence that the use of HRT as recently prescribed in
the UK constitutes a major cardiovascular risk or benefit.

PMCID: PMC1052821
PMID: 2592907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Jun;43(2):153-61.

Confounding variables in studying the effects of maternal alcohol consumption
before and during pregnancy.

Walpole I(1), Zubrick S, Pontré J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Princess Margaret Hospital for Children, Perth,
Western Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to investigate the relationship between alcohol consumption and 
pregnancy outcome.
DESIGN: prospective randomised cohort survey with follow up sample stratified on 
level of alcohol intake.
SETTING: antenatal clinic of large maternity hospital in Western Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: 2002 randomly selected pregnant women recruited over 3 year period 
for questionnaire survey (58% in 1st trimester, 33% in 2nd trimester, 8% in third
trimester at recruitment). Only 19 refused participation. Stratified subsample of
665 women followed up, of whom 60 had miscarriage, stillbirth or neonatal death. 
Subsample was selected on basis of prepregnancy alcohol consumption.
INVESTIGATIONS AND MAIN RESULTS: All 2002 women completed a comprehensive
questionnaire on demographic, lifestyle, health (including diet) and obstetric
factors. The stratified subsample was followed through pregnancy and data were
collected on obstetric course and infant outcome. Results showed that beer, wine 
and spirits drinkers differed significantly in maternal characteristics,
nutrition and other important variables such as smoking. Women with stillbirths
or miscarriages drank more beer than those with live births, though total levels 
of alcohol intake did not differ. Beer drinkers were less likely to reduce their 
consumption in pregnancy than other drinkers if they also smoked more than 20
cigarettes per day.
CONCLUSIONS: Studies of effects of maternal drinking must include extensive
information on the variables examined in this study or conclusions relating to
maternal drinking in pregnancy are likely to be invalid.

PMCID: PMC1052818
PMID: 2592904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Jun;43(2):147-52.

The effect of leisure time physical activity on the risk of pre-eclampsia and
gestational hypertension.

Marcoux S(1), Brisson J, Fabia J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Laval University, Quebec, Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the relation between leisure time physical activity
(LTPA) during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy and the risk of developing
pre-eclampsia and gestational hypertension.
DESIGN: Case-control study carried out over a 28 month period with retrospective 
data collection.
SETTING: Six hospitals in Quebec City and four hospitals in Montreal.
PARTICIPANTS: 172 women with pre-eclampsia, 254 with gestational diabetes, 505
controls. All were primiparous, with no history of high blood pressure before
pregnancy (unless due to oral contraceptive use), or during the first 20 weeks of
gestation. Cases were defined using recognised criteria, and 97% of those
eligible agreed to be interviewed. Controls delivered in same hospital
immediately after cases and had no more than one reading of elevated blood
pressure during pregnancy; 96% of those eligible agreed to be interviewed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Participants were interviewed in hospital a few
days after delivery using a questionnaire. Information was collected on type,
frequency and average duration of any LTPA performed regularly during the first
20 weeks of pregnancy, together with medical, obstetric and sociodemographic
details. It was found that women who performed regular LTPA had a reduced risk of
pre-eclampsia (adjusted RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.46-0.96) and gestational hypertension
(aRR 0.75, 95% CI 0.54-1.05), and the relative risks decreased as the average
time spent in LTPA increased (aRR for pre-eclampsia among women with low,
moderate and high energy expenditure: 1.00, 0.77 and 0.57, p = 0.01). The same
trend was present for gestational hypertension (1.00, 0.80 and 0.71,
respectively, p = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Leisure time physical activity during the first half of pregnancy is
likely to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia and gestational hypertension.

PMCID: PMC1052817
PMID: 2592903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. J Pediatr. 1989 Jun;114(6):957-62.

Metabolic evaluation of obese and nonobese siblings.

Elliot DL(1), Goldberg L, Kuehl KS, Hanna C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Medicine, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypotheses that obese adolescents have a lower resting
metabolic rate and less aerobic endurance than their nonobese siblings.
DESIGN: Case-referent study of obese and nonobese siblings from the same kindred.
SETTING: Tertiary referral center.
PARTICIPANTS: Telephone screening of community volunteers resulted in a
consecutive sample of 16 kindreds. Obese and nonobese siblings were similar in
age, height, and pubertal status. Significantly more female subjects were in the 
obese group (p less than 0.01).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Body composition studies revealed that the obese
siblings had higher body fat (p less than 0.001) but that fat-free mass was
similar to that of the lean siblings. Resting metabolic rates determined by
indirect calorimetry for the obese and nonobese pairs did not differ. Although
the obese siblings appeared less fit when maximal oxygen consumption was measured
in relation to total weight, maximal oxygen consumption did not differ when
values were standardized for fat-free mass.
CONCLUSIONS: The obese adolescents did not have a reduced resting metabolic rate.
As in adults, the relationship between resting metabolic rate and fat-free mass
was similar for obese and nonobese children and adolescents. Any decreased sport 
participation by the obese siblings was not due to inherent reductions in aerobic
capacity.

PMID: 2723910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Pediatr. 1989 Jun;114(6):1045-8.

Acetaminophen: more harm than good for chickenpox?

Doran TF(1), De Angelis C, Baumgardner RA, Mellits ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether acetaminophen affects the duration or
severity of childhood varicella.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
SETTING: Office- and hospital-based pediatric practices.
PATIENTS: Seventy-two children between 1 and 12 years of age entered the study.
One child was withdrawn because of high fever, and three children did not
complete the study; 31 received placebo and 37 received acetaminophen.
INTERVENTIONS: Acetaminophen, 10 mg/kg/dose, was given at 8 AM, 12 PM, 4 PM, and 
8 PM for 4 days. Placebo was given to the control group. Itching, appetite,
activity, and overall condition were measured for 6 days. The time to last
vesicle formation, time to total scabbing, and time to total healing were
measured until complete resolution of the exanthem.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The following results were better in the placebo
group (p less than .05): time to total scabbing 5.6 days (SD 2.5) versus 6.7 days
(SD 2.3) in the acetaminophen group, and itching on day 4 in the placebo group
(symptom score 2.9 (SD 0.20) vs 2.2 (SD 0.26]. Activity was better in the
acetaminophen group on day 2 (3.13 (SD 0.23) vs 2.82 (SD 0.24].
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide evidence that acetaminophen does not alleviate
symptoms in children with varicella and may prolong illness.

PMID: 2656959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Kokubyo Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Jun;56(2):314-46.

[Histological investigation of improvement of mandibular atrophy for application 
of hydroxyapatite dental implant].

[Article in Japanese]

Uoshima K.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the possibility of applying the
hydroxyapatite dental implant to the atrophic mandible after alveolar ridge
augmentation using hydroxyapatite granules. The lower P3, P4 and M1 of 3 mongrel 
dogs were extracted. At 30 weeks, alveolar ridge augmentation was performed with 
porous hydroxyapatite granules. Sixteen weeks later, hydroxyapatite dental
implants were applied to the area. And 4 weeks later, the specimens were taken
out and fixed by 10% formalin alcohol. They were embedded in polyester resin and 
prepared into undecalcified sections. And the sections were stained with
toluidine blue to observe the surrounding tissue of the dental implants
histologically under light microscopy.RESULTS: 1) Bone formation was seen in most
part of the intergranular spaces. However, in the buccal area, there were some
spaces in which bone formation was entirely not observed. 2) At 4 weeks after
implantation, almost all of the surface of the hydroxyapatite dental implants was
attached to the surrounding osseous tissues. But in some parts of the implant
surface, especially the buccal, fibrous connective tissue was seen. 3) These
results provide a basis for the technique of hydroxyapatite dental implantation
with porous hydroxyapatite granules in the atrophic mandibles after alveolar
ridge augmentation.

PMID: 2794698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Kokubyo Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Jun;56(2):289-313.

[Histological investigation of improvement of jaw-bone structure for application 
of hydroxyapatite dental implant].

[Article in Japanese]

Masuda T.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the possibility of applying the
hydroxyapatite dental implant to the jaw-bone with atrophic structure. The lower 
P3, P4 and the mesial root of M1 of 6 mongrel dogs were extracted. At 4 months,
the trabeculae were taken out and porous hydroxyapatite granules were filled in
the vacant spongiosa. At 8 months, hydroxyapatite dental implants were placed
into this area. After 1 week and after 2 months, specimens were taken out and
fixed by 10% formalin alcohol. They were embedded in polyester resin and
undecalcified thin sections were prepared. The sections were stained with
toluidine blue and observed under light microscopy.RESULTS: 1) A larger amount of
bone compared with that of the peripheral spongiosa was observed among the
granules. 2) One week after implantation, differentiation around the implant was 
rather slow in the area of the granules. But in the area of the granules next to 
the spongiosa, differentiation was normal. 3) Two months after implantation, a
new bone was observed, which filled the implantation space and united the implant
to the bone among the granules. But on some implant surface, a fibrous connective
tissue was seen. These results suggest that this method is able to improve the
jaw-bone structure sufficiently to apply the hydroxyapatite dental implant.

PMID: 2794697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1989 Jun;37(6):273-9.

[Diagnostic value of Q wave changes during the exercise test. Review of the
literature and personal experience].

[Article in Italian]

Facchin D, Slavich GA, Fresco C, Sindici MG, Tuniz D, Feruglio GA.

To test if a low Q wave voltage and its faulty increase after exercise is an
additional sign of myocardial ischemia, 64 pts with no previous myocardial
infarction, bundle branch block or left ventricular hypertrophy were studied by a
treadmill test and coronary angiography. Nineteen had single vessel disease
(SVD), 21 double vessel disease (DVD), 4 triple vessel disease (TVD) and 20
normal coronary arteries. Sensitivity (SENS), specificity (SPEC) and predictive
value (P) of Q wave changes have resulted as follows: 84%, 55%, 80.4%,
respectively, compared to 79.5%, 75%, 87.5% of ST modifications associated or not
with angina. The SENS of Q wave changes was 72% in SVD and 92% in multivessel
disease (p less than 0.05). In 68% of our pts ST and Q wave changes gave
concordant results and their combination increased SENS, SPEC, PV to 90.1%, 80%, 
90.3%.IN CONCLUSION: Q wave analysis can provide further evidence of myocardial
ischemia and can increase SENS, SPEC of stress test. In our experience Q wave is 
a more sensitive finding than ST depression in multivessel disease.

PMID: 2682360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1989 Jun;12(6):977-89.

Right ventricular tachycardia with left bundle branch block and inferior axis
morphology: clinical and arrhythmological characteristics in 15 patients.

Proclemer A(1), Ciani R, Feruglio GA.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Cardiologia, Ospedale Civile, Udine, Italy.

Fifteen patients (mean age 30) presenting with right ventricular tachycardia (VT)
of the outflow tract type (left bundle branch block with inferior axis
morphology), in the absence of obvious organic heart disease, were studied. Seven
patients had palpitations, one presyncope and seven were asymptomatic. The echo
and/or angiographic findings were normal in 11 patients (73%), suggesting
arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD) in three (20%) and dubious in
one (7%). The VT was sustained in three patients (20%), nonsustained (11 +/- 6
beats) in twelve (80%), inducible during exercise in two out of 15 patients (13%)
and with ventricular stimulation in one out of eight (12.5%). Four patients were 
treated with sotalol, three with Class IC drugs and one with amiodarone. At
follow-up of 36 +/- 30 months, only three patients had VT recurrences due to drug
withdrawal.IN CONCLUSION: (1) abnormal echo and/or angiographic findings
suggested that ARVD was observed in a minority of the patients (22%); (2) the low
inducibility of VT and the good response to sotalol suggested a possible
mechanism of abnormal automaticity; and (3) at a 3-year follow-up the prognosis
appeared to be good in both patients with or without echo-angiographic signs
suggestive of right ventricular dysplasia.

PMID: 2472625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Jun;8(6):443-6.

[Movement of the mitral valve in patients with ischemic cardiopathy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Oliveira JA, Lousada N, da Silva N, Bernardes L, Quininha J, Salomão S.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: 1. Determination of the clinical value of the mitral-septal
angle (MSA), a new two-dimensional echocardiographic (2DE) index, in the
evaluation of left ventricular function; 2. Assessment of the relation of
incomplete mitral leaflet closure (IMLC) with the presence of mitral
regurgitation (MR) or elevated end-diastolic left ventricular pressure (EDLVP).
DESIGN: Prospective study involving subjects without heart disease and patients
with coronary artery disease.
SETTING: Cardiology Department of the Hospitais Civis de Lisboa--Hospital de S.
Marta.
PARTICIPANTS: We studied: A - 30 normal volunteers; B - 43 patients (pt) with
coronary artery disease documented by coronary angiography.
METHODS: Two-Dimensional Echocardiography was performed in all subjects. MSA was 
measured in early diastole using the apical four-chamber view. Using the same
view IMLC was assessed. Echo pulsed Doppler was used to detect the presence of
MR. All patients in group B were submitted to cardiac catheterization. EDLVP was 
measured and left ventriculography and coronary arteriography were performed.
Presence of MR was assessed and ejection fraction (EF) calculated. According to
EF patients were divided: Group B1 (EF greater than 50 - 23 pt); Group B2 (EF
35-50% - 11 pt); Group B3 (EF less than 35% - 9 pt).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In group A MSA was always less than 30 degrees and
IMLC was never observed. In group B pt with EF greater than 50% had MSA less than
30 degrees in all but one case. Patients with EF less than 50% had MSA superior
to 30 degrees in all but two cases. MSA superior to 45 degrees was found in 2 pt 
with EF 35-50% and in 5 pt with EF less than 35%. IMLC was detected in 11 pt.
Only 2 pt had MR and 7 had EDLVP greater than 18 mmHg - 15 pt had an elevated
EDLVP in the whole group. IMLC was frequent in group B3 - 7 pt. Correlation
between MSA and EF was good (r = -0.81). Sensitivity and specificity of MSA in
the separation of pt with EF superior and inferior to 50% was 90% and 95%,
respectively: they dropped when we tried to separate pt with EF superior and
inferior to 35% (sensitivity 55%, specificity 77%).
CONCLUSIONS: IMLC didn't correlate with the existence of MR or elevated EDLVP; it
appears, however, to be associated with poor left ventricular function (EF less
than 35%). MSA is a good echocardiographic index of left ventricular in patients 
with coronary artery disease. It is easily measured and it can be a good
alternative to mitral E point septal separation in patients in which left sternal
views are difficult or impossible.

PMID: 2631850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 1989 Jun;11(3):225-8.

[Interrupted aortic arch--report of two cases].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen ZD.

Interrupted aortic arch is a rare congenital heart malformation frequently
associated with other extra or intracardiac congenital defects. These anomalies
are divided into three types, depending on the site of aortic interruption. The
diagnosis may be suspected clinically in patients with diminished femoral pulses 
and when the partial pressure and saturation of oxygen in the blood from arteries
proximal to the interruption are higher than those from arteries distal to the
interruption. The characters of heart murmurs are not of help in the diagnosis,
which can be confirmed only by an ascending aortogram.SURGICAL TREATMENT: A
two-stage approach has been routinely used in newborns. This consists of initial 
repair of the aortic interruption with left subclavian arteries (type A) or with 
a prosthetic tube (type B, C) and concomitant closure of the proximal end of the 
ductus by ligation or suturing, to be followed by closure of the intracardiac
defect at a later date. Correction of the interrupted aortic arch and
intracardiac malformation in elder children can be done at one sitting.

PMID: 2529992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Zhonghua Zheng Xing Shao Shang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 1989 Jun;5(2):85-6, 155.

[Changes in blood gas in severely burned patients with acute pulmonary
insufficiency treated by high frequency ventilation (HFV)].

[Article in Chinese]

Li GH.

Since 1982, 39 cases suffering from severe burns with acute pulmonary
insufficiency were treated by high frequency ventilation (HFV). Blood gas changes
were observed in 15 cases with mean burn areas of 67.7% TBSA, among them, 10
cases complicated with inhalation injury. The indications for HFV treatment are: 
dyspnea, increase of respiratory rate (greater than 30 times/min.), and PaO2 less
than 60 mmHg (8.00 KPa).RESULTS: 30 times of blood gas analysis were studied with
or without HFV in 15 cases. The mean PaO2 value was 59.2 mmHg (7.89 KPa) without 
HFV, while the mean PaO2 value was 109.3 mmHg (14.57 KPa) with HFV. The
difference was significant (P less than 0.01). Their results showed that HFV can 
improve ventilation and raise PaO2 value in severe burned patients with acute
pulmonary insufficiency. The mean PaCO2 values were 33.6 mmHg (4.48 KPa) and 32.9
mmHg (4.39 KPa) respectively without HFV and with HFV, no significant difference 
was found (P greater than 0.05). There was no retention of CO2 in blood when HFV 
was used. The advantages of HFV were discussed in this paper. This study suggests
that it is advisable to use HFV in severely burned patients with acute pulmonary 
insufficiency.

PMID: 2509044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. BMJ. 1989 May 27;298(6685):1426-8.

Soluble interleukin 2 receptor in atopic eczema.

Colver GB(1), Symons JA, Duff GW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Edinburgh.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether serum soluble interleukin 2 receptor
concentrations are related to disease activity in atopic eczema.
DESIGN: Single cohort longitudinal study with controls.
SETTING: Outpatient and general medicine departments in secondary referral
centre.
PATIENTS: Of 15 patients aged 17-57 with severe atopic eczema, all with acute
exacerbations of disease, 13 were admitted to hospital and two treated as
outpatients until the skin lesions had resolved or greatly improved. Nineteen
controls gave single blood samples.
INTERVENTIONS: Daily skin dressing with betamethasone valerate (0.025%) and
ichthammol paste and tubular dressings.
END POINT: Resolution of or considerable improvement in skin lesions.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were
used to measure serum soluble interleukin 2 receptor concentrations in blood
samples taken on admission, at intervals subsequently, and on discharge. Clinical
scores of disease activity were also made. Median concentrations on admission
were significantly higher (770 U/ml) in the patients than the controls (300
U/ml). Concentrations fell significantly during treatment. In 25 assessments made
at different times in 13 patients serum soluble interleukin 2 receptor
concentration correlated significantly (R = 0.73) with clinical disease activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Cellular immunopathogenic mechanisms contribute to atopic eczema.
Immune activation can be measured in atopic eczema by measurements of soluble
interleukin 2 receptor, and this should facilitate assessment of response to
treatment.

PMCID: PMC1836575
PMID: 2568868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. BMJ. 1989 May 27;298(6685):1421-3.

Antenatal ultrasonography to detect fetal renal abnormalities: a prospective
screening programme.

Livera LN(1), Brookfield DS, Egginton JA, Hawnaur JM.

Author information: 
(1)North Staffordshire Maternity Hospital, Stoke on Trent.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate screening for abnormalities of the fetal renal tract by
ultrasonography and to determine the incidence of such abnormalities in a
population.
DESIGN: A 12 month prospective population study. Follow up of infants to between 
9 and 18 months.
SETTING: A district general hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: 6292 Pregnant women reaching 28 weeks' gestation within the study
period.
INTERVENTIONS: Antenatal ultrasound scanning was offered to all of the women.
Babies in whom an abnormality of the renal tract had been detected antenatally
underwent ultrasound scanning at the end of the first week. If the abnormality
was confirmed contrast radiography was performed.
END POINT: Confirmation of suspected renal abnormality by postnatal
investigations. Detection of abnormality in children thought to be normal
antenatally.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 92 babies who had abnormal antenatal scans,
42 had abnormalities confirmed postnatally. Four of them died and 21 had had or
were awaiting an operation at 18 months' follow up. Seven children had renal
abnormalities that were missed antenatally. The incidence of abnormalities
detected by screening antenatally was 0.65%, and the overall incidence at 18
months' follow up was 0.76%.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of structural renal abnormalities in babies is higher 
than reported previously. Antenatal ultrasonography is an effective way of
detecting such abnormalities.

PMCID: PMC1836551
PMID: 2502277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. BMJ. 1989 May 27;298(6685):1419-20.

Bilateral fetal uropathy: what is the outlook?

Arthur RJ(1), Irving HC, Thomas DF, Watters JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, General Infirmary, Leeds.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the morbidity and mortality associated with a prenatal
diagnosis of bilateral fetal uropathy.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Departments of radiology, paediatric surgery, obstetrics, and pathology 
in two teaching hospitals that serve as referral centres for the Yorkshire
region.
PATIENTS: 126 Cases of fetal uropathy were referred either prenatally or
postnatally from hospitals in Yorkshire between August 1982 and December 1987.
The disease was bilateral in 54 cases and unilateral in 72 cases. In 14 cases
bilateral fetal uropathy was associated with coexistent disease.
INTERVENTIONS: All cases were managed individually by an obstetrician after
discussion with the radiologists and paediatric surgeons. Babies who survived
were treated prophylactically with antibiotics after delivery and were operated
on if appropriate.
END POINT: Assessment of prognosis for long term renal function for each baby
referred between August 1982 and December 1987: follow up ranged from six months 
to five years.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 54 fetuses with bilateral fetal uropathy,
13 were terminated as the prenatal findings of ultrasonography were considered to
be incompatible with long term survival. Ten of the liveborn babies died, five of
renal or pulmonary insufficiency, or both, and five of associated congenital
anomalies. Thirty one infants survived to follow up; four of these had serious
coexistent disease and two had impaired renal function. Thus the overall
mortality was 43% and the morbidity rate 19%. The renal anomaly was associated
with other serious disease in 14 cases (26%) compared with two (3%) of the 72
cases of unilateral fetal uropathy. All but two of the 27 infants with isolated
bilateral urinary tract disease had excellent prospects for survival.
CONCLUSION: Although bilateral fetal uropathy is associated with a high morbidity
rate and mortality, careful prenatal assessment can help to identify fetuses with
a poor prognosis. The outlook for a fetus with isolated renal disease if treated 
promptly after delivery is excellent and compares favourably with that reported
after prenatal surgical intervention.

PMCID: PMC1836553
PMID: 2502276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. BMJ. 1989 May 27;298(6685):1417-9.

Value of antenatal diagnosis of abnormalities of the urinary tract.

Greig JD(1), Raine PA, Young DG, Azmy AF, MacKenzie JR, Danskin F, Whittle MJ,
McNay MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 29;299(6694):325-6.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of antenatal diagnosis of abnormalities of the
urinary tract on ultrasonography.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Two obstetric units in Glasgow.
SUBJECTS: 62 Fetuses in which renal abnormalities were diagnosed on antenatal
ultrasonography.
INTERVENTIONS: Six fetuses had their bladders aspirated to determine renal
function. Fifteen pregnancies were terminated on the basis of the findings on
antenatal ultrasonography, and if possible necropsy was performed on the fetuses.
In babies who were born alive the final diagnosis was made by postnatal
ultrasonography, intravenous urography, radionuclide scanning, cystography, and, 
in those who died in the early neonatal period, necropsy. Neonates who were
referred with a known obstructed kidney had nephrostomy or pyeloplasty.
END POINT: Assessment of the value of antenatal diagnosis of renal abnormalities 
on ultrasonography for babies who had no clinical evidence of disease
postnatally.
MAIN RESULTS: Eighteen fetuses did not survive birth; the antenatal diagnosis was
accurate in all 18. Of the 44 babies born alive, five had normal urinary tracts, 
in two of whom antenatal ultrasonography had probably indicated a false positive 
diagnosis. Fourteen babies died during the early neonatal period. Twenty five
babies with renal abnormalities were followed up; the antenatal diagnosis was
inaccurate for 10 of them, the commonest misdiagnosis being hydronephrosis for
multicystic kidney and vice versa, and there was one false positive diagnosis.
The initial clinical findings in 14 babies would have led to the early detection 
of a urological abnormality. In the 30 babies with no clinical evidence of
disease the antenatal diagnosis was of definite value in eight, probable value in
15, and marginal value in seven. Overall, an accurate antenatal diagnosis was
made in 46 of the 62 cases (74%); in 12 cases renal disease was detected but its 
specific nature was not determined; and in four cases the diagnosis was
misleading.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall value of antenatal diagnosis is that it indicates early 
termination of fetuses with fatal renal disease, prepares parents and medical
staff for the likelihood of serious neonatal problems, and shows abnormalities of
the urinary tract that may not be detected postnatally.

PMCID: PMC1836548
PMID: 2502275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1360-2.

Three year follow up of patients with raised blood pressure identified at health 
checks in general practice.

Mant D(1), McKinlay C, Fuller A, Randall T, Fullard EM, Muir J.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund General Practice Research Group, Radcliffe
Infirmary, Oxford.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the extent of three year follow up of blood pressure,
weight, and smoking habit in patients with raised blood pressure identified at
health checks.
DESIGN: Retrospective audit of medical and nursing records.
SETTING: Three general practices in Oxfordshire.
PATIENTS: 386 of 448 patients with raised blood pressure (diastolic greater than 
or equal to 90 or systolic greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg) identified from
2935 patients aged 35-64 attending health checks in 1982-4.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All records of blood pressure, weight, and smoking
habit in the medical record were abstracted for three years after the initial
health check. All 42 patients with an initial diastolic blood pressure greater
than or equal to 105 mm Hg and 316 of 344 patients with an initial pressure of
90-104 mm Hg had at least one further measurement of their blood pressure. Follow
up of smoking habit and of weight was less complete with only half of the 100
smokers and 67 of the 87 obese patients (body mass index greater than or equal to
30) having any documented follow up of these risk factors. Annual follow up in
the second and third years occurred in 228/297 (76.8%) and 232/320 (72.5%) in
patients with blood pressure greater than 95 mm Hg at the beginning of each year.
For patients who smoked annual follow up in these years occurred in fewer than a 
third and for those who were obese in just over half. On the assumption that
those not followed up had not changed, at the end of three years the proportion
of patients with diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100 mm Hg had 
fallen from 61 patients (15.8%) to 31 (8.1%); the proportion of smokers had
fallen from 103 (26.7%) to 94 (24.4%); and the proportion of obese patients had
fallen from 87 (22.5%) to 79 (20.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: These changes were modest and in the absence of a control group
cannot be attributed necessarily to health checks. Although the standard of
follow up was better than in previously reported studies of the management of
hypertension, the results emphasise the need to develop formal protocols for
dietary and antismoking interventions and to evaluate formally the effectiveness 
(and cost effectiveness) of health checks.

PMCID: PMC1836618
PMID: 2502255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1353-6.

Oral rehydration formula containing alanine and glucose for treatment of
diarrhoea: a controlled trial.

Patra FC(1), Sack DA, Islam A, Alam AN, Mazumder RN.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether adding L-alanine to the glucose based oral
rehydration solution recommended by the World Health Organisation would improve
its efficacy in treating acute diarrhoea.
DESIGN: Randomised double blind controlled trial of oral rehydration solution
containing L-alanine and glucose.
SETTING: Inpatient service of a hospital treating diarrhoea.
PATIENTS: 97 Male patients aged 6-59 years admitted to the hospital with acute
and severe dehydration due to diarrhoea associated with Vibrio cholerae or
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli. Forty nine received the standard glucose based 
oral rehydration solution (control group) and 48 this solution with alanine added
(study group).
INTERVENTIONS: All of the patients received rapid intravenous acetate solution
for the initial four hours after admission, which fully corrected the signs of
dehydration. They were then admitted to the study and randomised. Immediately
after the intravenous treatment oral rehydration treatment was started. All of
the patients received oral tetracycline for 48 hours, starting 24 hours after
start of the study. If signs of dehydration reappeared during oral treatment
patients were given rapid intravenous acetate solution until they were fully
corrected and then continued to take the assigned oral rehydration solution.
END POINT: Passage of the last watery stool.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The median stool output/kg body weight during the 
initial 24 hours of oral rehydration treatment and until diarrhoea stopped was
reduced in the study group compared with the control group from 309 ml to 196 ml 
and from 393 ml to 236 ml respectively. Intake of oral rehydration solution and
intravenous acetate solution was reduced from 455 ml to 308 ml and from 616 ml to
425 ml respectively. Two patients in the study group compared with 18 patients in
the control group required unscheduled rapid intravenous acetate solution to
correct signs of dehydration during oral rehydration treatment.
CONCLUSION: Oral rehydration solution containing L-alanine was considerably
better than standard oral rehydration solution at reducing the severity of
symptoms and the need for fluid of male patients with diarrhoea associated with V
cholerae and enterotoxigenic E coli.

PMCID: PMC1836607
PMID: 2502251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1350-3.

Optimisation of positive and expiratory pressure for maximal delivery of oxygen
to tissues using oesophageal Doppler ultrasonography.

Singer M(1), Bennett D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine 1, St George's Hospital Medical School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To assess oesophageal Doppler ultrasonography as a convenient means of
optimising positive end expiratory pressure for maximal delivery of oxygen to
tissues.
DESIGN: Measurements of blood flow, arterial oxygen saturation, and cardiac
output by thermodilution (when available) at baseline and at 20-30 minutes after 
each incremental increase (2.5-5.0 cm H2O) in positive and expiratory pressure to
a maximum of 20.0 cm H2O. If the cardiac output fell by more than 15%
measurements were repeated after stepwise decreases in positive end expiratory
pressure. No other manoeuvre such as endotracheal suction or changing ventilator 
settings, drug or fluid dosage, or the patient's position was performed for at
least one hour before the start of the study or during it.
SETTING: Intensive care unit.
PARTICIPANTS: 10 Patients being mechanically ventilated for acute respiratory
failure who had stable haemodynamic and blood gas values and required a
fractional inspired oxygen concentration of greater than or equal to 0.45. They
were assessed on a total of 11 occasions.
INTERVENTIONS: Incremental increases in positive end expiratory pressure followed
when indicated by stepwise decreases.
END POINT: The positive end expiratory pressure providing maximal delivery of
oxygen to tissues.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Arterial oxygen saturation increased with positive
end expiratory pressure in all patients by an average of 6.1%. In nine of the 11 
studies, however, cardiac output fell by 15% to 30% after the second increment.
On the two other occasions cardiac output and oxygen delivery rose by up to 54%. 
Positive end expiratory pressure was decreased on seven occasions; there was
considerable individual variation in the time taken for cardiac output to rise
and arterial oxygen saturation to fall. In six patients good agreement was seen
between the results from Doppler ultrasonography and thermodilution, the mean of 
the differences being -0.3% with narrow limits of agreement (-14.4% to 13.9%).
CONCLUSIONS: Oesophageal Doppler ultrasonography is a rapid, safe, and reliable
technique for optimising positive end expiratory pressure to obtain maximal
delivery of oxygen to tissues. The results show the need to consider haemodynamic
consequences when altering positive end expiratory pressure.

PMCID: PMC1836635
PMID: 2502250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1345-50.

First myocardial infarctions in Asian and white men.

Hughes LO(1), Raval U, Raftery EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Northwick Park Hospital and Clinical Research Centre,
Harrow, Middlesex.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 1;299(6690):52.
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 15;299(6692):179-80.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the presentation and natural course of first myocardial
infarctions in immigrant Asians and the indigenous white population in Britain
and the subsequent risk states of the two groups.
DESIGN: Prospective ethnic comparison of consecutive patients with first
myocardial infarctions.
SETTING: Secondary referrals to a coronary care unit of a district general
hospital.
PATIENTS: 128 Men (77 white, 54 Asian) presenting consecutively with a first
myocardial infarction diagnosed on the basis of clinical, biochemical, and
electrocardiographic findings.
END POINT: Identification of mechanisms accounting for the increased rate of
ischaemic heart disease in Asians.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Infarct size was assessed by measuring the release
of creatine phosphokinase (all patients), radionuclide ventriculography (50), and
contrast ventriculography (103). Risk states after infarction were assessed from 
the degree of ventricular dysfunction as determined by exercise
electrocardiography (82 patients) and from the extent of coronary atheroma as
determined by coronary arteriography (103). Glucose state was measured in fasting
venous blood samples. Overall the relative rate of infarction was 4.9 times
higher in Asians (95% confidence interval 3.4 to 6.9) than in the white
population. Moreover, the relative rate of infarction was higher in Asians in all
10 year age groups, the greatest difference being in 30-39 year olds. The mean
age of the Asian denominator population was 47.1 years compared with 49.5 years
in the white population. Age at infarction was less in Asians (50.2 years) than
in white patients (55.5 years; mean difference 5.5 years (95% confidence interval
2.5 to 7.1]. In Asians the mean creatine phosphokinase activity was 777 (95%
confidence interval 155 to 1399) U/1 higher, radionuclide ejection fraction 8.9% 
(1.0% to 16.9%) lower, and left ventricular fractional shortening 4.8% (1.4% to
8.2%) lower than in white patients. The extent of coronary atheroma was
significantly greater in Asians. The mean numbers of plaques in vessels not
associated with infarction were 3.66 (median 3.0, range 0-10) in Asians compared 
with 1.97 (median 2.0, range 0-6) in white patients (p less than 0.001), and a
higher proportion of Asians had three vessel coronary artery disease (p less than
0.001). Asians with diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance did not differ from
those with normal blood glucose values.
CONCLUSIONS: Atherogenesis arises earlier in Asians, contributing to premature
first myocardial infarctions. The increased incidence of diabetes in Asians may
not in itself be relevant in the greater propensity to coronary atheroma in
Asians.

PMCID: PMC1836652
PMID: 2502249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1343-5.

Non-attendance or non-invitation? A case-control study of failed outpatient
appointments.

Frankel S(1), Farrow A, West R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Wales, College
of Medicine, Cardiff.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jul 1;299(6690):53.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the causes of non-attendance at new outpatient
appointments.
DESIGN: Case-control study of non-attenders and attenders.
SETTING: Outpatient department of a general hospital.
SUBJECTS: All non-attenders (n = 277) for first outpatient appointments in six
specialties during a three month period were included. Controls (n = 135) were
the attenders who followed every second non-attender; thus they attended the same
consultant on the same day that the non-attenders were expected.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Information on the clinical problem, difficulties 
in attending the hospital, and reasons for non-attendance from the questionnaire 
were coded and classified. Non-attenders had received shorter notice of their
appointment than attenders (14% v 1% had received three days' notice or less).
There were small differences in the seriousness of patients' clinical condition.
CONCLUSIONS: Client factors are less important than aspects of the service in
explaining non-attendance at outpatient appointments.

PMCID: PMC1836620
PMID: 2502248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):786-94.

High prevalence of antibodies to intestinal epithelial antigens in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease and their relatives.

Fiocchi C(1), Roche JK, Michener WM.

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):445-6.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether healthy members of families of patients with
inflammatory bowel disease share an immune reactivity to gut epithelial cell
antigens.
DESIGN: Assessment of immune reactivity against epithelial-cell-associated
components (ECAC).
METHODS: Detection of specific anti-ECAC serum antibodies by antibody-dependent
cellular cytotoxicity (percent specific lysis) and by immunoblotting (Western
blots).
PATIENTS: Index cases (131) and first-degree relatives in 17 families with 2 or
more affected members, and 13 with only 1 member affected.
MAIN RESULTS: Compared with a gastrointestinal disease control group (0.5% +/-
0.8%), specific lysis against ECAC-C (colon-derived) among patients with
inflammatory bowel disease was significantly greater in both multiply affected
(8.4% +/- 8.2%; P less than 0.01) and singly affected (5.2% +/- 5.4%; P less than
0.05) families. In contrast, specific lysis by patients with other inflammatory
processes of the small and large bowel (1.1% +/- 1.4%) or autoimmune disease
(0.7% +/- 1.0%) did not differ from that of the gastrointestinal disease control 
group. Among relatives of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (index cases),
specific lysis was also significantly higher than in the control group (4.8% +/- 
5.5% for multiply affected, P less than 0.01, and 4.3% +/- 5.5% for singly
affected, P less than 0.05). Relatives of patients with chronic inflammatory
liver disease had a level of lysis (0.6% +/- 0.9%) similar to that of controls.
The prevalence of antibodies to ECAC-C was 69.7% among patients with chronic
inflammatory bowel disease, and 55.7% among relatives; both prevalences were
significantly higher than that of the control group (8.0%, P less than 0.001).
Using small-bowel-derived ECAC, the prevalence of antibodies among patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease and relatives was also significantly higher than that 
of controls. Reactivity of sera was directed to a 160- and a 137-kilodalton
macromolecule.
CONCLUSIONS: Immune sensitization to intestinal epithelial antigens is common in 
families with chronic inflammatory bowel disease; its high frequency among
asymptomatic relatives suggests it may represent a primary phenomenon, perhaps
predisposing individuals to gut tissue injury.

PMID: 2712462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):779-85.

Hepatitis D virus infection in Illinois state facilities for the developmentally 
disabled. Epidemiology and clinical manifestations.

Hershow RC(1), Chomel BB, Graham DR, Schyve PM, Mandel EJ, Kane MA, Fields HA,
Hadler SC.

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia.

OBJECTIVE: To define the epidemiology and clinical manifestations of hepatitis D 
virus infection in an institutionalized population.
DESIGN: A case-control study of hepatitis B carriers with and without serologic
evidence of hepatitis D virus infection. Demographic, institutional, and medical 
data were obtained through questionnaires and chart review. Clinical status was
assessed by liver function assays.
SETTING: Thirteen Illinois state facilities for the developmentally disabled.
PARTICIPANTS: Clients (238) who were hepatitis B carriers.
RESULTS: Antibody to hepatitis D virus (anti-HDV) was detected in 71 of 238 (30%)
hepatitis B carriers. Nine of thirteen facilities housed positive clients.
Previous residence at one facility, designated B, was the strongest correlate of 
anti-HDV positivity; 85% of positive persons had lived there compared with 16% of
negative controls (odds ratio 28.3 [95% CI, 13.2 to 60.7], P less than 0.001).
Past hepatitis episodes were more common among anti-HDV-positive clients (37%
compared with 7%) (odds ratio, 7.5 [95% CI, 3.0 to 19.1], P less than 0.001) and 
occurred mainly at facility B from 1950 to 1975. Liver function tests were
infrequently abnormal among anti-HDV-positive clients.
CONCLUSIONS: Results show widespread hepatitis D virus infection in our
institutionalized population and suggest that transmission occurred mainly in the
past at the overcrowded facility B. The low prevalence of laboratory evidence of 
chronic liver disease in the anti-HDV-positive clients may be explained by
increased mortality among those originally infected from 1950 to 1975.

PMID: 2712461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):767-73.

Asthma in respiratory therapists.

Kern DG(1), Frumkin H.

Author information: 
(1)Roger Williams General Hospital, Brown University Program in Medicine,
Providence, Rhode Island.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):620.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Dec 1;111(11):952.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that work as a respiratory therapist is
associated with an increased risk of developing asthma.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional questionnaire study comparing respiratory therapists with
controls (physical therapists and radiologic technologists). Subsequent
validation of reported asthma with methacholine challenge studies.
SUBJECTS: All respiratory therapists and physical therapists and a random 50%
sample of radiologic technologists working in the state of Rhode Island as of
June 1986.
METHODS: All subjects received a mail questionnaire with questions about the
presence or absence of asthma, time of onset, and important covariates. Responses
were analyzed for all subjects, and again after excluding those subjects with
pre-existing asthma. Subjects who reported physician-diagnosed asthma were asked 
to have methacholine challenge testing.
RESULTS: Respondents included 194 respiratory therapists (response rate, 69.5%)
and 517 controls (response rate, 75.3%). After excluding respiratory therapists
from the hospital at which the hypothesis was generated, there were 34
respiratory therapists (18.7%) and 30 controls (5.8%) reporting
physician-diagnosed asthma. After controlling for age, smoking status, family
history, atopic history, and other covariates using logistic regression,
respiratory therapy carried an odds ratio of 3.2 (95% CI, 1.9 to 5.5). With
analysis restricted to those who developed asthma after entering their
profession, the odds ratio for respiratory therapy was 4.6 (95% CI, 2.0 to 10.4).
In the validation study, 10 of 14 respiratory therapists (71%) and 6 of 10
controls (60%) had evidence of bronchial hyperreactivity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest a previously unrecognized excess of asthma in 
respiratory therapists. The excess develops after entry into the profession, and 
does not appear to be explained by confounding, information bias, or selection
bias.

PMID: 2712460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):761-6.

Percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty in octogenarians: morbidity and
mortality.

Brady ST(1), Davis CA, Kussmaul WG, Laskey WK, Hirshfeld JW Jr, Herrmann HC.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Section, Founders 9, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19104.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the morbidity, mortality, and hospital course of an
elderly patient sample (mean age, 86 years; 95% CI, 84 to 87) having percutaneous
aortic balloon valvuloplasty.
DESIGN: Retrospective consecutive case series before and after balloon
valvuloplasty.
SETTING: Tertiary care referral hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 26 patients aged 80 years or older with
symptomatic aortic stenosis referred for balloon valvuloplasty from July 1987 to 
July 1988.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty reduced 
the transvalvular gradient from 59 (95% CI, 51 to 67) to 31 mm Hg (95% CI, 26 to 
35; P less than 0.0001) and increased aortic valve area from 0.45 (95% CI, 0.38
to 0.51) to 0.67 cm2 (95% CI, 0.58 to 0.76; P less than 0.0001). The mean length 
of hospital stay for the entire study population was 11.2 days (95% CI, 7.3 to
15.2) at a total hospital charge per patient of $29,600 (95% CI, 21,050 to
38,150). For patients having procedural complications (11 complications in 8
patients), surgical procedures, or cardiogenic shock, the mean hospital stay
increased to 16.2 days (95% CI, 6.2 to 26.2; P less than 0.05) and the hospital
charge increased to $44,400 (95% CI, 24,280 to 64,520; P less than 0.01). Two
patients who presented with cardiogenic shock died, and 1 patient had an aortic
valve replacement before discharge. Four patients were recently discharged (less 
than 1 month) and follow-up was obtained in the remaining 19 patients at 6.1
months (95% CI, 4.1 to 8.1). Five more patients, including the remaining patient 
who presented with cardiogenic shock, died after discharge for an overall
mortality of 32%. Twelve of the remaining fourteen patients had fewer symptoms
and improved an average of 1.1 New York Heart Association classes (95% CI, 0.7 to
1.4; P less than 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty in patients 80 years and
older improves hemodynamics and symptoms of heart failure during short-term
follow-up in most patients, but overall mortality is high in this elderly patient
population. Hospital charges and length of stay were much higher in patients with
complications or coexisting medical illnesses. Valvuloplasty is a reasonable
alternative treatment for patients with aortic stenosis who require palliative
treatment of symptoms and have high surgical risk.

PMID: 2712459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):824-32.

A computer-assisted medical diagnostic consultation service. Implementation and
prospective evaluation of a prototype.

Bankowitz RA(1), McNeil MA, Challinor SM, Parker RC, Kapoor WN, Miller RA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 15;111(6):544-5.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy of a computer-aided consultation
service using academic general internists and the Quick Medical Reference (QMR)
diagnostic program: and to study the impact of the consultation on the diagnostic
behavior of physicians caring for patients.
DESIGN: Prospective study of the diagnostic accuracy of computer-aided
consultation in 31 cases, as well as a prospective study of ward team diagnoses
and opinions before and after consultation.
SETTING: General medicine wards of two tertiary care centers.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-one patients identified as posing a diagnostic challenge and
meeting eligibility criteria, as well as the housestaff caring for these
patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After 6 months follow-up, diagnoses were
established in 20 of 31 cases. The diagnostic sensitivity of the
computer-assisted diagnoses, 85% (95% CI, 56% to 97%), was similar to that of the
consult service physicians, 80% (95% CI, 55% to 94%), but better than that of the
ward teams, 60% (95% CI, 33% to 81%; P = 0.03 using the binomial test). The
consultation influenced the postconsultation differential diagnoses of the ward
teams in 26 of the 31 cases (95% CI, 92% to 95%). House officers rated the
consultation service as being educationally helpful in 25 of the 31 cases (95%
CI, 62% to 94%).
CONCLUSIONS: Computer-aided diagnostic consultation, when provided by physicians 
familiar with the limitations of the system and capable of overriding
inappropriate suggestions, was both accurate and educationally helpful in most
cases. The system provided reasonable diagnostic suggestions not previously
considered by the ward teams and these suggestions were valued sufficiently to
cause alteration of the original differential diagnoses.

PMID: 2653156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 15;110(10):774-8.

Combination immunosuppressive therapy after factor VIII infusion for acquired
factor VIII inhibitor.

Lian EC(1), Larcada AF, Chiu AY.

Author information: 
(1)University of Miami School of Medicine, Florida.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1149-50.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Feb 1;112(3):233.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of combined cyclophosphamide,
vincristine, and prednisone (CVP) therapy after antigenic stimulation with factor
VIII in the eradication of factor VIII inhibitor.
DESIGN: Factor VIII activity and inhibitor titer were measured before and after
FVIII-CVP therapy and patients with factor VIII inhibitor were followed for at
least 2 years.
SETTING: The first course of therapy was carried out in the hospital when
nonhemophiliac patients were admitted for bleeding. Otherwise, treatment was
administered at the outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: From 1975 to 1986 we studied 12 nonhemophiliac and 5 hemophiliac
patients with factor VIII inhibitor treated with FVIII-CVP and followed at our
clinic.
INTERVENTION: Patients were infused with one dose of factor VIII concentrate, 50 
to 100 U/kg body weight, followed by cyclophosphamide, 500 mg on day 1 and 200
mg/d on days 2 to 5; vincristine, 2 mg on day 1; and prednisone, 100 mg/d on days
1 to 5. This regimen was repeated every 3 to 4 weeks.
RESULTS: Of 12 nonhemophiliac patients, 11 responded after 1 to 3 courses of
FVIII-CVP with complete disappearance of the inhibitor without recurrence. Among 
5 patients with hemophilia who were given 3 to 8 courses, only 1 patient
responded with a transient disappearance of inhibitor. Mild neutropenia and
infection occurred in 3 patients and required antibiotic treatment.
CONCLUSION: Factor VIII-CVP therapy is highly effective in the eradication of
factor VIII inhibitor in nonhemophiliac patients but not in patients with
hemophilia.

PMID: 2496636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. BMJ. 1989 May 13;298(6683):1280-3.

Local hyperthermia benefits natural and experimental common colds.

Tyrrell D(1), Barrow I, Arthur J.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Common Cold Unit, Harvard Hospital, Salisbury.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Sep 2;299(6699):600.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether inhaling fully humidified air at 43 degrees C
gave more benefit to cold sufferers than inhaling air at 30 degrees C.
DESIGN: Randomised double blind trial. Setting--General practice and the common
cold research unit.
SUBJECTS: 87 Unselected patients with typical acute nasal and upper respiratory
symptoms (general practice study), and 84 volunteers aged 18-50 without a history
of chronic or allergic diseases.
INTERVENTIONS: Subjects breathed from apparatus delivering 40 litres of room air 
heated to 43 degrees C or 30 degrees C and fully humidified (relative humidity
100%) per minute. End point--Reduction in severity of disease. MEASUREMENTS and
main results--Patients recorded their symptoms (general practice study) and
observers recorded symptoms and signs, weight of nasal secretions, isolation of
virus, and antibody responses in volunteers. Patients treated for 20 minutes at
43 degrees C had in the succeeding days roughly half the score for symptoms of
those treated at 30 degrees C. Volunteers treated for 30 minutes on three
occasions when they were starting a cold showed an 18% [corrected] reduction in
symptoms. Treatment of volunteers for 20 minutes at the onset of the cold and for
10 minutes on succeeding days showed no difference between 43 degrees C and 30
degrees C.
CONCLUSIONS: Nasal hyperthermia can improve the course of a common cold and also 
give immediate relief of symptoms.

PMCID: PMC1836535
PMID: 2500196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. BMJ. 1989 May 13;298(6683):1277-80.

Isoflurane compared with midazolam for sedation in the intensive care unit.

Kong KL(1), Willatts SM, Prys-Roberts C.

Author information: 
(1)Sir Humphry Davy Department of Anesthesia, Bristol Royal Infirmary.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jun 17;298(6688):1642.

OBJECTIVE: To compare isoflurane with midazolam for sedation of ventilated
patients.
DESIGN: Randomised control study. Setting--Intensive care unit in university
teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Sixty patients aged 18-76 who required mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTIONS: Sedation with either 0.1-0.6% isoflurane in an air-oxygen mixture 
(30 patients) or a continuous intravenous infusion of midazolam 0.01-0.20 mg/kg/h
(30 patients). Sedation was assessed initially and hourly thereafter on a six
point scale. Incremental intravenous doses of morphine 0.05 mg/kg were given for 
analgesia as required. The trial sedative was stopped when the patient was judged
ready for weaning from ventilatory support or at 24 hours (whichever was
earlier).
END POINT: Achievement of a predetermined level of sedation for as much of the
time as possible.
MAIN RESULTS: Isoflurane produced satisfactory sedation for a greater proportion 
of time (86%) than midazolam (64%), and patients sedated with isoflurane
recovered more rapidly from sedation.
CONCLUSION: Isoflurane is a promising alternative technique for sedation of
ventilated patients in the intensive care unit.

PMCID: PMC1836531
PMID: 2500195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1989 May 9;78(19):541-50.

[Hodgkin disease, stage I through III A: treatment results at the Zurich
University Hospital from 1974 to 1985 and current procedures].

[Article in German]

Glanzmann C, Strebel U, Seelentag W.

1974 to 1985, 148 patients with M. Hodgkin I to III A have been treated at the
University Hospital Zurich with radiotherapy or radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Ten year survival rates (recurrence free) are: all patients 88% (67%); all with
primary radiotherapy 88% (58%); PS I A/II A and radiotherapy 94% (63%); PS III A 
and primary radiotherapy 78% (56%); patients with recurrence after primary
radiotherapy 69% (73%).COMPLICATIONS: four cases of acute leukaemia, one case of 
pancytopenia and sepsis and one case with a myeloproliferative syndrome.
Cumulative frequency of leukaemia after ten years is about 7%. Three patients
suffered from secondary solid neoplasia. 94% of all living patients are free of
symptoms and are working 100%. Based on Ann-Arbor stage, number and volume of
involved regions, age, histology, general symptoms and the sedimentation rate,
patients with M. Hodgkin CS I to III A can be subdivided in three groups with the
following risks of recurrence after primary irradiation without staging
laparotomy and splenectomy: a favourable group with a recurrence risk of about
20%. For these patients, primary radiotherapy after clinical staging is an
acceptable therapy. In a second group with a high recurrence risk of greater than
50% after irradiation, primary chemotherapy is indicated, usually with additional
irradiation of the main tumour manifestations. In a third group with a medium
recurrence risk, laparotomy may be further indicated.

PMID: 2662326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Orv Hetil. 1989 May 7;130(19):999-1000.

[ECG characteristics of acute myocardial ischemia].

[Article in Hungarian]

Szabó P, Szelier A, Szépvölgyi A, Turi T, Simon K.

The authors discussed the efficacy of ECG in distinction of reversible and
irreversible myocardial damage. On the basis of continuous ECG monitoring of a
patient, suffering from acute ischemic syndrome, it was established, that neither
the appearance of R wave reduction nor that of the transient Q wave (besides the 
widely accepted ST segment elevation) do not signify the fact of transmural
myocardial infarction.IN CONCLUSION: the classical rules in indication of
myocardial rescue therapy should be expanded and ECG monitoring is of crucial
importance in indication and evaluation of myocardial rescue therapy in acute
myocardial ischemic syndrome.

PMID: 2726249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. BMJ. 1989 May 6;298(6682):1217-9.

Acne in schoolchildren: no longer a concern for dermatologists.

Rademaker M(1), Garioch JJ, Simpson NB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Glasgow Royal Infirmary.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence and severity of acne among schoolchildren 
in Glasgow.
DESIGN: Secondary schools in Glasgow were divided by postcode into five
socioeconomic cluster groups. Different numbers of schools were selected at
random from the five groups to ensure proportional representation. One class from
each registration year of the chosen schools was selected at random and the whole
class recruited into the study.
SETTING: 15 Secondary schools in Glasgow.
SUBJECTS: 2014 Randomly selected schoolchildren aged 12-17 (5% of total secondary
school roll).
INTERVENTIONS: None.
END POINT: Assessment of facial acne by two independent examiners by a recognised
acne scoring system.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The prevalence of acne in boys increased from 40% 
(75/189) at age 12 to 95% (108/114) at age 16, and in girls it increased from 61%
(114/187) at age 12 to 83% (136/164) at age 16. On a scale of 0 to 10 only 18
boys (1.8%) and three girls (0.3%) had grades of acne of 1.0 or greater; most of 
the pupils had grade 0.05-0.375 (minimal) acne. Nine per cent of boys (88/973)
and 14% of girls (145/1041) had visited their general practitioner specifically
for advice on and treatment for acne; only five pupils (0.3%) had been referred
to a dermatologist.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the prevalence and severity of acne have decreased over the
past 20 years. This has probably been due to improvement of treatment for acne by
primary care doctors and the greater availability and use of over the counter
preparations for acne.

PMCID: PMC1836257
PMID: 2526674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. BMJ. 1989 May 6;298(6682):1224-6.

Responses by general practitioners in Avon to proposals for general practice in
the white paper Working for Patients.

Whitfield M(1), Wood N, Wright F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Bristol.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the views of Avon's general practitioners about the
general practice proposals within the government's white paper Working for
Patients.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire survey.
SETTING: A county in south west England.
SUBJECTS: All general practitioner principals (n = 537) under contract with Avon 
Family Practitioner Committee.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: 492 doctors (92%) responded to the survey. More
than three quarters of the respondents were opposed to the government's proposals
on budgets for specific surgical procedures, prescribing, and diagnostic tests;
and between 63% and 93% felt negative about advantages that might accrue from the
proposals. Over three quarters of general practitioners were in favour of family 
practitioner committees monitoring work load, prescribing, and referrals. General
practitioners in large, potentially budget holding practices held similar views
to doctors in smaller practices.
CONCLUSIONS: Avon's general practitioners substantially reject most of the
government's proposals about general practice in the white paper Working for
Patients.

PMCID: PMC1836280
PMID: 2502223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Biol Chem. 1989 May 5;264(13):7251-61.

Chemoattractant receptor promotion of Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane of
HL-60 cells. A role for cytosolic free calcium elevations and inositol
1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate production.

Pittet D(1), Lew DP, Mayr GW, Monod A, Schlegel W.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Division, University Hospital, Genève, Switzerland.

The mechanisms by which the chemotactic peptide
formyl-methyl-leucyl-phenyl-alanine stimulates Ca2+ influx across the plasma
membrane were investigated in the human promyelocytic cell line HL-60, induced to
differentiate with dimethyl sulfoxide. Ca2+ influx was determined: (a) from the
initial rate of Mn2+ influx, apparent from the quenching of intracellular quin2
or fura-2 fluorescence; (b) from the rate of the elevation of cytosolic free
calcium, [Ca2+]i, upon readdition of Ca2+ to cells previously stimulated in the
absence of extracellular Ca2+. [3H]Inositol tris-, tetrakis-, and
pentakisphosphates were analyzed by a high performance liquid chromatography
procedure which was optimized for the separation of inositol tetrakisphosphates, 
yielding three predominant isomers: inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate
(Ins(1,3,4,5)P4), inositol 1,4,5,6-tetrakisphosphate, and inositol 1,3,4,
6-tetrakisphosphate. Both the kinetics and agonist dose dependence of Ca2+ influx
stimulation correlated closely with the corresponding receptor-mediated
variations of [Ca2+]i either in the presence or in the absence of extracellular
Ca2+. Of the different inositol phosphates determined in parallel and under the
same conditions, accumulation of [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 correlated best with Ca2+
influx both temporally and in its dose dependence in the presence or in the
absence of extracellular Ca2+; inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate was also correlated
but to a lesser extent. Attenuations of [Ca2+]i elevations by decreasing
extracellular Ca2+ or by increasing the cytosolic Ca2+ buffering capacity with
quin2 led to parallel inhibition of Ca2+ influx and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 production.IN 
CONCLUSION: 1) activation of Ca2+ influx by formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine
depends on the elevation of [Ca2+]i, the latter being initiated by Ca2+
mobilization from intracellular stores; 2) Ins(1,3, 4,5)P4 is a strong candidate 
for maintaining receptor-mediated activation of Ca2+ influx in differentiated
HL-60 cells.

PMID: 2540183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):554-8.

Recombinant interferon-alpha therapy of Philadelphia chromosome-negative
myeloproliferative disorders with thrombocytosis.

Talpaz M(1), Kurzrock R, Kantarjian H, O'Brien S, Gutterman JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology and Biological Therapy, University of Texas,
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston 77030.

PURPOSE: The clinical course of patients with myeloproliferative disorders and
excessive thrombocytosis may be complicated by serious hemorrhagic or thrombotic 
events. We have previously reported that interferon-alpha can control severe
refractory thrombocytosis in patients with advanced chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Therefore, we treated a group of thrombocythemic patients with Ph-negative
myeloproliferative disorders, including polycythemia vera and essential
thrombocythemia, with recombinant interferon-alpha (rIFN-alpha 2a).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eight patients with profound elevations in platelet counts 
received a median induction dose of 5.4 X 10(6) U/day (range, 5.0 to 10.0 X 10(6)
U/day) of rIFN-alpha 2a administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously.
RESULTS: We observed a significant decline in platelet counts from a median
baseline value of 1,929 X 10(9)/L (range, 960 to 2,960 X 10(9)/L) to a median
posttreatment value of 431 X 10(9)/L (range, 71 to 1,150 X 10(9)/L) (p less than 
0.01). Concomitantly, white blood cell counts declined from a median baseline
value of 20.8 X 10(9)/L (range, 10.5 to 40.8 X 10(9)/L) to a median posttreatment
value of 6.1 X 10(9)/L (range, 2.9 to 29.0 X 10(9)/L) (p less than 0.02).
Correction of thrombocytosis was rapid, with a median of only eight days from the
start of therapy to the achievement of a platelet count less than 1,000 X
10(9)/L. Six of eight patients have shown an ongoing response with a median
follow-up period of 11 months (range, one to 30 months). There have been no
bleeding or thrombotic events during the study. Side effects of rIFN-alpha 2a
therapy consisted of fever and flu-like symptoms, with tachyphylaxis developing
after one to two weeks of therapy.
CONCLUSION: Our observations suggest that alpha interferon may be a promising
therapeutic agent for myeloproliferative disorders characterized by
thrombocytosis.

PMID: 2712063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):551-3.

Cocaine-induced rhabdomyolysis masquerading as myocardial ischemia.

Rubin RB(1), Neugarten J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York 10467.

PURPOSE: Cocaine abuse has recently emerged as a major problem among young
adults, and is increasingly associated with a variety of medical complications.
In view of recent reports demonstrating that illicit cocaine use may cause
rhabdomyolysis, we reviewed the collective experience of a university-affiliated 
medical center to identify patients with cocaine-induced rhabdomyolysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Among hospital admissions due to acute cocaine abuse during
the period June 1987 through June 1988, we identified seven patients who
exhibited biochemical evidence of skeletal muscle injury. Six of these patients
presented within one hour of free-basing cocaine with complaints of thoracic
skeletal muscle pain. Hospital admission was prompted by the suspicion of
myocardial ischemia or infarction. The remaining patient was incidentally found
to have an elevated serum level of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) after abusing
cocaine and was hospitalized to exclude a cardiac origin.
RESULTS: Serum CPK levels in the seven patients rose to a mean peak value of 16.1
+/- 3.6 mu kat/L, and returned toward normal within 72 hours. A cardiac origin
for the elevated CPK values was excluded by negative results of determinations of
CPK-MB fractions.
CONCLUSION: Rhabdomyolysis must be added to the every-growing list of medical
complications associated with the illicit use of cocaine. Skeletal muscle injury 
may be a more common complication of cocaine abuse than has previously been
appreciated, escaping medical attention when the clinical manifestations are
relatively mild. The importance of recognizing this clinical entity lies in the
potential confusion with myocardial ischemia. This point is illustrated by the
fact that each of our patients was hospitalized to exclude the possibility of
cocaine-induced myocardial infarction. Cardiac ischemia could not be
differentiated from skeletal muscle injury solely on the basis of clinical
assessment.

PMID: 2712062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):539-46.

Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome cholangiopathy: spectrum of disease.

Cello JP.

Author information: 
Gastroenterology Division, San Francisco General Hospital, California 94110.

PURPOSE: Reports of biliary tract abnormalities in patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are infrequent. Nine patients with features of
papillary stenosis and sclerosing cholangitis and one patient with primary bile
duct lymphoma were previously described. Since those reports, an additional 16
AIDS patients with clinical and laboratory features suggestive of biliary tract
disease have been evaluated. The findings in these 26 patients form the basis of 
this study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The patients, 25 men and one woman, with right upper
quadrant abdominal pain, fevers, or elevated serum alkaline phosphatase levels,
or any combination of the three symptoms, underwent endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography and ampullary biopsy.
RESULTS: Twenty of these 26 (77%) patients were found to have markedly abnormal
cholangiograms. Four patterns of cholangiographic abnormalities were identified: 
sclerosing cholangitis and papillary stenosis (10 patients), papillary stenosis
alone (three patients), sclerosing cholangitis alone (four patients), and long
extrahepatic bile duct strictures (three patients). An AIDS-associated pathogen
or malignancy was identified in 11 patients (55%), with cytomegalovirus being the
most common (five patients). Demographic, clinical, and laboratory features were 
not significantly different between AIDS patients with cholangiopathy and those
without cholangiopathy. However, 15 of 20 patients with cholangiographic
abnormalities (versus only one of six patients without such abnormalities) had
ductal dilation on ultrasound or computed tomography, or both.
CONCLUSION: Clinicians should be aware that profound biliary tract abnormalities 
may develop in a large number of human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. 
Confirmation of the anatomic abnormalities, determination of correct etiology,
and effective therapy may depend upon early endoscopic cholangiography.

PMID: 2712061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):528-32.

Cerebral infarctions and transient neurologic deficits associated with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Engstrom JW(1), Lowenstein DH, Bredesen DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Jun;88(6):700-1.

PURPOSE: Little information is available concerning the clinical importance of
cerebral infarction in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
The purpose of this retrospective study was two-fold: (1) to determine the
frequency and clinical characteristics of cerebral infarction and transient
neurologic deficits (TNDs) among patients with AIDS; and (2) to identify specific
patient subgroups at risk for such complications and whether there were
underlying associated diseases requiring specific therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Neurology inpatient and consult service records,
neuropathology reports, and the University of California, San Francisco, AIDS
computerized registry were used in identifying study cases. Information on
demographic background, associated clinical diagnoses, presenting neurologic
symptoms and signs, laboratory results, pathologic findings, and clinical
follow-up was obtained from each patient's medical record.
RESULTS: Twenty-five patients with AIDS (mean age, 38) having clinical or
pathologic findings suggestive of focal cerebral ischemia or infarction were
identified. Ten patients had non-hemorrhagic cerebral infarctions, 13 had acute
TNDs, and two had both. Cerebral infarction was associated with central nervous
system (CNS) infections (cryptococcus, four; tuberculosis, one; zoster
vasculitis, one) and cardiogenic embolism (one). TNDs were associated with
toxoplasmosis (four), cerebral infarction (two), cryptococcal meningitis (one),
vasculitis (one), and CNS Kaposi's sarcoma (one). A presumptive cause was absent 
in five cases of cerebral infarction and eight of TND. All five patients with
pathologically proven macroscopic cerebral infarcts were diagnosed clinically
before death.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude the following: (1) AIDS patients, especially given their
young age, appear to be increased risk for cerebral infarction and TND. (2)
Cerebral infarction and TND may be the initial presentation of AIDS. (3) TND and 
cerebral infarction often signify treatable CNS infection among AIDS patients.
(4) The causes of AIDS-related cerebral infarction and TND are unknown in many
cases.

PMID: 2712060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):521-7.

Evaluation of the policy of empiric treatment of suspected Toxoplasma
encephalitis in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

Cohn JA(1), McMeeking A, Cohen W, Jacobs J, Holzman RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Bellevue Hospital Center, New York, New York.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to measure response rates and survival in
patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and suspected Toxoplasma 
encephalitis treated empirically and in AIDS patients treated for biopsy-proven
toxoplasmosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: AIDS patients identified at Bellevue Hospital between
August 1985 and May 1986, who had abnormal computed tomographic scans of the
brain and who received empiric treatment for toxoplasmosis, constitute the
empirically treated cohort. A cohort with biopsy-proven toxoplasmosis was
identified from Bellevue Hospital neuropathology records spanning 1981 through
1986. Patient records were reviewed with a standardized data form, and tomograms 
were evaluated by neuroradiologists unaware of the identity of the scans.
Survival analysis was performed by the product limit method.
RESULTS: Of 38 empirically treated patients, 26 responded clinically and
radiographically within four weeks of initiation of therapy. Four of nine
patients who underwent biopsy responded to treatment. There was no difference in 
these response rates (68% versus 44%, p = 0.24). The median survival of the
empirically treated responders, from first diagnosis of AIDS to last follow-up,
was 422 days. Among the 30 responders, five patients discontinued therapy and
four of them had relapses. No relapses occurred in the 25 patients who continued 
full-dose therapy indefinitely (p = 0.0004). Sixteen of 30 patients (53%)
receiving continuous therapy developed toxicity, which required a change in
medication. There was no difference in the survival of patients who continued to 
receive sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine compared with those in whom clindamycin
was substituted for sulfadiazine (median, 311 days versus 422 days, p = 0.25).
CONCLUSION: A policy of empiric treatment of suspected Toxoplasma encephalitis is
satisfactory, and patients who respond to such therapy and continue to take full 
therapeutic doses of anti-Toxoplasma drugs have relatively long survivals.

PMID: 2712059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):515-20.

Chlamydia trachomatis cervical infection in women seeking routine gynecologic
care: criteria for selective testing.

Phillips RS(1), Hanff PA, Holmes MD, Wertheimer A, Aronson MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02215.

PURPOSE: Chlamydia trachomatis infection is one of the most common sexually
transmitted diseases. Developing methods to identify patients who are at higher
risk would enable clinicians to perform selective testing for C. trachomatis
infection, which may reduce morbidity, sequelae, and overall costs. Risk factors 
for C. trachomatis infection of the cervix in women seen for routine gynecologic 
care were therefore analyzed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Extensive clinical data and cervical cultures were obtained
from 1,141 women between the ages of 18 and 50. Multivariate techniques were used
to develop and prospectively test a model to predict infection.
RESULTS: In the model development series of 530 patients seen in a hospital-based
practice, 24 (4.5%) had a positive culture result. In the validation series of
611 patients seen in private practice, 17 (2.8%) had positive culture results.
The majority of infected patients (61%) were asymptomatic. For sexually active
women 18 to 35 years of age, the optimal predictive model was based on three
factors: level of education (high school or less), a sex partner with other
partners during the prior three months, and endocervical bleeding induced by the 
initial swab. In the validation series, the prevalence of infection for women
with one or more of these factors was 5.8% (95% confidence interval, 4.0 to 8.6) 
compared with 0.9% in patients without these factors (p = 0.005).
CONCLUSION: Clinical information can be used in a low-prevalence population to
predict a patient's risk for C. trachomatis infection and to select patients for 
testing.

PMID: 2712058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):533-8.

Progression to AIDS in patients with lymphadenopathy or AIDS-related complex:
reappraisal of risk and predictive factors.

Murray HW(1), Godbold JH, Jurica KB, Roberts RB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Cornell University Medical College, New York,
New York.

PURPOSE: In 1985, we reported that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)
developed in 14 of 81 (17%) men with generalized lymphadenopathy followed
prospectively for an average of 13 months. The presence of oral thrush or
constitutional symptoms, or both, or severely impaired T4+ cell responses to
specific antigen (interferon-gamma production) accurately identified patients at 
immediate risk for AIDS. The purpose of the current report is to describe the
progress of these 81 patients during the three and a half years since enrollment 
and to include new data on initial serum levels of beta 2 microglobulin and human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) p24 antigen.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The mean age of the 81 patients was 35.4 years; 79 were
homosexuals and two were drug abusers. Immunologic testing was performed once at 
the time of enrollment in all patients. Seventy-seven of the 81 patients were
seropositive for HIV antibody. Frozen samples of serum, also obtained at initial 
study, were assayed in 1988 for beta 2 microglobulin and HIV p24 antigen. The
clinical status of patients was determined six, 14, and 36 months after
enrollment was closed (June 1984) by either interview and examination or
telephone contact with private physicians.
RESULTS: After three and a half years of follow-up, 42 patients have developed
AIDS, including (1) 77% who had had thrush or symptoms, or both, (2) 80% to 88%
of those who originally demonstrated marked immunologic abnormalities (skin test 
anergy, less than 200 T4+ cells/mm3, T4/T8 cell ratio of less than 0.5, severely 
impaired interferon-gamma production [less than 25 U/mL], or elevated serum beta 
2 microglobulin level [greater than 3.0 mg/L], and (3) 95% of patients with HIV
p24 antigenemia. However, AIDS also developed in 51% of patients who had had more
apparently benign initial manifestations (lymphadenopathy alone, herpes zoster), 
in 41% to 54% despite normal initial results for either T4+ cell number,
interferon-gamma secretion, beta 2 microglobulin, or skin testing, and in 44% of 
those whose sera did not contain HIV antigen.
CONCLUSION: These updated results demonstrate the remarkably poor prognosis of
patients with generalized lymphadenopathy or AIDS-related complex irrespective of
initial clinical, immunologic, and serologic findings, and suggest that
essentially all such persons may be candidates for antiviral therapy.

PMID: 2565690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Am J Med. 1989 May;86(5):547-50.

Efficacy of screening flexible sigmoidoscopy for colorectal neoplasia in
asymptomatic subjects.

Gupta TP(1), Jaszewski R, Luk GD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Wayne State University, Harper Hospital, Detroit,
Michigan 48201.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1991 Apr;90(4):536-7.

PURPOSE: Although flexible sigmoidoscopy is recommended in patients over age 40
to complement fecal occult blood screening for colorectal neoplasia, the yield of
this procedure in asymptomatic, average-risk subjects has varied between studies.
In addition, the efficacy of flexible sigmoidoscopy in detecting early curable
carcinoma has been the subject of debate. We therefore undertook this study to
assess the efficacy, safety, and cost of the procedure for early detection of
colorectal neoplasia in asymptomatic subjects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Flexible sigmoidoscopy with a 60-cm scope was performed in 
412 asymptomatic veterans (mean age, 63.2 years). Subjects with positive fecal
occult blood and those at increased risk for colorectal neoplasia were excluded. 
Costs were estimated on the basis of Medicare payments.
RESULTS: A mean length of 56.1 cm of sigmoid and descending colon was examined. A
total of 132 polyps were detected in 93 subjects (22.6%). Thirty-five percent of 
the polyps were located at a distance of greater than 30 cm from the anal verge. 
Of 122 polyps removed, 26% were 1 cm in size or larger. A total of 77 polyps
(63%) were adenomas, and six polyps (5%) were carcinomas. Of the six carcinomas
detected (two carcinoma in situ, one Astler Coller stage A, two stage B1, and one
stage C1), five were in a localized stage and thus potentially curable. The cost 
of detecting each potentially curable carcinoma was $47,174. No complications
from flexible sigmoidoscopy were noted.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, 60-cm flexible sigmoidoscopy is a safe, high-yield
procedure for the initial screening of colorectal neoplasia in asymptomatic,
average-risk subjects over the age of 50. Because the carcinomas detected were
still in an early stage, such screening may improve survival.

PMID: 2496599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Am J Physiol. 1989 May;256(5 Pt 1):E588-96.

Effects of training and detraining on dose-response relationship between glucose 
and insulin secretion.

Mikines KJ(1), Sonne B, Tronier B, Galbo H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physiology B, Panum Institute, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark.

We studied the effect of training and detraining on the dose-response
relationship between plasma glucose and beta-cell secretion in seven trained
young men using sequential hyperglycemic clamp technique (7, 11, and 20 mM).
Experiments were performed in the habitual state 15 h after last training session
(T) as well as after 5 days of detraining (DT). Results were compared to data
from seven untrained subjects (UT). Glucose-stimulated insulin, proinsulin, and
C-peptide levels were lower in T than in UT. They increased during detraining but
not to levels seen in UT. Furthermore, in T and DT, but not in UT, increases in
C-peptide and proinsulin leveled off with increasing glucose concentrations.
Estimated by C-peptide-to-insulin ratios, clearance of endogenous insulin was not
influenced by T. Glucose uptake in tissue was the same in T, DT, and UT during
clamps, despite lower insulin levels in T and DT. Differences between groups in
counterregulatory hormones, fat metabolites, alanine, or electrolytes did not
account for these findings. Oxygen consumption was higher in the basal state in T
and DT compared with UT but increased similarly in all groups in response to
glucose.CONCLUSIONS: regular physical activity causes an adaptive decrease in
glucose-mediated beta-cell secretion in humans. The training-induced decrease in 
glucose-stimulated insulin secretion is accurately matched to increased insulin
action, keeping glucose disposal constant at any given plasma glucose
concentration. Finally, training increases basal metabolic rate but does not
influence glucose-induced thermogenesis or clearance of endogenous insulin.

PMID: 2655469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):719-26.

Predictive validity of certification by the American Board of Internal Medicine.

Ramsey PG(1), Carline JD, Inui TS, Larson EB, LoGerfo JP, Wenrich MD.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):345.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the predictive validity of the American Board of
Internal Medicine (ABIM) certification process.
DESIGN: Prospective measurement of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of 185
ABIM-certified and 74 noncertified internists by a written examination;
evaluation by professional associates; a patient questionnaire assessing
satisfaction with care, physician's counseling role, and preventive care; and
review of records of patients with common illnesses.
SUBJECTS: Practicing internists who completed training or received ABIM
certification 5 to 10 years previously.
SETTING: Office-based practices in six western states.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: Physicians certified by the ABIM had significantly
higher scores on the written examination than the noncertified physicians, and
scores on our examination correlated highly with the ABIM certification
examination (r = 0.73). Ratings of clinical skills by professional associates
were significantly higher for certified internists and also correlated highly
with ABIM examination scores (r = 0.53 to 0.59). Regression analysis showed that 
ABIM certification status was the major variable affecting performance on these
measures of clinical competence. Results from other measures did not show many
differences between certified and noncertified physicians in the care of patients
with common illnesses, but modest differences in preventive care and a few
differences in outcome favored the certified physicians.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparison of findings from the written examination and the
professional associate ratings with certification status and original ABIM
certification examination scores shows predictive validity of ABIM certification.
Further studies are needed to determine if certification status predicts
important differences in the care of patients with complex illnesses.

PMID: 2930109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):704-9.

Evaluation of a serologic marker, CA19-9, in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer.

Pleskow DK(1), Berger HJ, Gyves J, Allen E, McLean A, Podolsky DK.

Author information: 
(1)New England Deaconess Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):184-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):343.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the utility of the serologic marker CA19-9 in the
diagnosis of pancreatic cancer in patients suspected of having a pancreatic
disorder.
DESIGN: Blinded study of frozen pedigreed serum samples collected at time of
diagnostic evaluation with follow-up review at a mean of 8 years.
SETTING: A general university teaching hospital serving both primary and referral
patient populations.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Sera collected prospectively from 1978 to 1980
from 261 patients undergoing imaging studies of the pancreas (ultrasound,
computed tomography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) for a
variety of symptoms were assayed for CA19-9 levels, and the results were compared
with earlier determinations of other potential markers for pancreatic cancer. In 
54 patients ultimately shown to have pancreatic cancer, the CA19-9 assay showed a
sensitivity of 70% with a median value of 349 u/mL (normal less than 70 u/mL) and
range, 7.3 to 2,859,964 u/mL, whereas specificity of the marker in this
population was 87%. The positive predictive value was 59%, and the negative
predictive value was 92%. Results of CA19-9 testing in the small group of
patients with definitive staging information showed no difference in sensitivity 
between patients with local/regional disease (n = 6) and those with distant
metastases (n = 14), 50% compared with 71% (P = 0.613).
CONCLUSION: CA19-9 was found to be a more sensitive and specific marker of
pancreatic cancer than other serologic markers and should be a useful test in the
patient with suspected pancreatic disease.

PMID: 2930108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):714-8.

Pulmonary edema associated with tocolytic therapy.

Pisani RJ(1), Rosenow EC 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota.

PURPOSE: To familiarize the general internist with the unique features of
pulmonary edema occurring in association with tocolytic therapy (drugs used to
inhibit uterine contractions).
DATA IDENTIFICATION: The literature in English was searched using MEDLINE (1.966 
to 1988), and bibliographies of pertinent articles and texts were reviewed.
STUDY SELECTION: Fifty-eight case reports were examined by both authors and
served as the database.
DATA EXTRACTION: Several clinical variables, when available, were extracted from 
each case reported. Each variable was analyzed to provide an accurate composite
description of pulmonary edema resulting from tocolytic therapy.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Patients with this syndrome present with dyspnea and
may or may not have chest pain. Women at risk are receiving or have recently
received sympathomimetic agents to arrest uterine contractions, with or without
steroids. The incidence of the syndrome is higher in women with twin gestations. 
In postpartum cases, the syndrome usually occurs within 12 hours of delivery.
Most women have intact membranes at presentation. Patients rarely have
hypotension but usually have tachycardia and tachypnea. Chest roentgenograms
usually show bilateral alveolar infiltrates and a normal-sized heart. Arterial
blood gas values reveal an increased alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient.
Hemodilution may cause a decrease in potassium values and the hematocrit.
Patients respond rapidly to treatment with diuresis and oxygen administration and
show clinical improvement usually within 24 hours. The underlying mechanism
appears to be related to increased hydrostatic pressure and not to increased
permeability or a direct toxic effect of tocolytic agents.
CONCLUSIONS: Familiarity with the clinical features outlined above should
increase the internist's ability to manage this problem without further invasive 
or noninvasive testing that might otherwise be used in evaluating dyspnea in
pregnancy.

PMID: 2648928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):685-90.

Methylprednisolone therapy in patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis. A
randomized multicenter trial.

Carithers RL Jr(1), Herlong HF, Diehl AM, Shaw EW, Combes B, Fallon HJ, Maddrey
WC.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College of Virginia, Richmond.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):259.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 15;111(4):344-5.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of a corticosteroid in reducing the
short-term mortality of patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trial.
SETTING: Four university teaching hospitals.
PATIENTS: We enrolled 66 patients with alcoholic hepatitis and either spontaneous
hepatic encephalopathy or a discriminant function value greater than 32,
calculated using the formula: 4.6 (prothrombin time - control time) + serum
bilirubin [in mumol/L]/17.1. Fifty-nine patients (89%) completed the study. Two
patients withdrew from the trial. The other 64 patients were hospitalized for the
duration of the trial; however, treatment was discontinued in 5 patients because 
of potential drug toxicity.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to receive either
methylprednisolone (32 mg) or placebo within 7 days of admission. Treatment was
given for 28 days. The doses were then tapered over 2 weeks and discontinued.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The endpoint of the study was death. Of the 31
recipients of placebo, 11 (35%) died within 28 days of randomization compared
with 2 (6%) of the 35 patients given methylprednisolone (P = 0.006). The 95% CI
for the difference in mortality was 12% to 70%. In the patients with spontaneous 
hepatic encephalopathy at entry, 9 of 19 recipients of placebo died (47%)
compared with 1 (7%) of the 14 patients given methylprednisolone (P = 0.02). The 
95% CI for the difference in mortality was 14% to 66%. The Cox proportional
hazards regression model showed the advantage of methylprednisolone over placebo 
after adjustment for other potentially important prognostic variables (P =
0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Methylprednisolone therapy decreases short-term mortality in
patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis manifested either by spontaneous hepatic
encephalopathy or a markedly elevated discriminant function value.

PMID: 2648927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):710-3.

Foscarnet therapy for severe acyclovir-resistant herpes simplex virus type-2
infections in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). An
uncontrolled trial.

Erlich KS(1), Jacobson MA, Koehler JE, Follansbee SE, Drennan DP, Gooze L, Safrin
S, Mills J.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether trisodium phosphonoformate (foscarnet) is
efficacious in treating severe mucocutaneous disease due to acyclovir-resistant
herpes simplex virus type-2 (HSV-2) infection in patients with the acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Open-labeled drug administration to patients with AIDS and severe
ulcerative disease due to acyclovir-resistant HSV-2 infection.
SETTING: Medical floors of acute care hospital.
PATIENTS: Four patients with AIDS who developed progressive ulcerative
mucocutaneous lesions of the genitals, perineum, perianal region, or finger due
to acyclovir-resistant, thymidine-kinase (TK)-negative strains of HSV-2.
INTERVENTION: Foscarnet, 60 mg/kg body weight intravenously every 8 hours (with
reduced dosage for renal impairment), for 12 to 50 days.
MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients receiving foscarnet had dramatic
improvement in their clinical findings with marked clearing of mucocutaneous
lesions and eradication of HSV from mucosal surfaces.
CONCLUSION: Foscarnet may be an effective treatment for severe mucocutaneous
disease due to acyclovir-resistant, TK-negative strains of HSV-2.

PMID: 2522751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex. 1989 May;46(5):328-35.

[Intellectual development and somatic growth in students suffering from
malnutrition early in life].

[Article in Spanish]

Vega-Franco L, Robles-Martínez B.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the Intellectual Quotient (IQ) and the somatic
growth of school children which were malnourished in early life.
DESIGN: Ex-post-factum study of growth and IQ achievements, in children
previously affected by malnutrition.
SETTING: To get early indicators of growth and development handicaps in school
age children, for stimulation programs after the disease.
PATIENTS: Twenty eight school children, affected by malnutrition during the first
two years of life, were selected from a Rehabilitation Center.
INTERVENTION: The height and the IQ (WISC) of the children, were measured. Beside
that, the following data were obtained from the records: the age, height, weight 
and developmental quotient (Gesell) during the malnutrition, the time spent in
the treatment, and the body weight/height ratio at recovery and at the time of
the study.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In 20 of the children, the height was below the
10th percentile; 12 of them were below the 3d percentile. Only 8 had IQ's from 90
to 110; in 10 children the IQ was below 80. There was a positive correlation (p =
0.05) among the height/weight ratio at rehabilitation and at the moment of the
study. The IQ, related to the variables studied, was not statistical significant 
(p less than or equal to 0.05).

PMID: 2757774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1989 May;30(5):485-91.

Interaction of clonidine and GHRH on GH secretion in vivo and in vitro.

Alba-Roth J(1), Losa M, Spiess Y, Schopohl J, Müller OA, von Werder K.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Klinik Innenstadt, University of Munich, FR Germany.

To investigate the mechanism by which clonidine stimulates GH-secretion in vivo
and in vitro, we studied its interaction with GHRH. In vivo: eight or six normal 
male subjects were submitted to five protocols: (1) 150 micrograms clonidine
orally followed by 50 micrograms GHRH 1-44 i.v. 2 h later, (2) 50 micrograms GHRH
1-44 i.v. followed by 150 micrograms clonidine orally 2 h later, (3) 150
micrograms clonidine orally followed by GHRH i.v. 30 min later, (4) 300
micrograms clonidine orally followed by 50 micrograms GHRH i.v. 3 h later and (5)
50 micrograms GHRH i.v. followed by 300 micrograms clonidine orally 90 min later.
In vitro: Rat anterior pituitary cells were coincubated with clonidine (10(-11), 
10(-9), 10(-7) and 10(-5) M) and GHRH (0.005, 0.05, 10 nM) for 4 h.RESULTS: 150
micrograms clonidine alone does not stimulate GH-secretion. Furthermore, the
GH-increase was not significantly different when GHRH bolus was given before,
after or together with clonidine. When 300 micrograms clonidine was given before 
GHRH GH-levels were significantly higher (max 28.6 +/- 8.0 mU/l) at 90 min,
compared to when clonidine was given after GHRH (max 7.8 +/- 3.6 mU/l). The GHRH 
bolus after clonidine led to a significantly lower GH-increase (max 31.6 +/- 17.0
mU/l) compared to the GHRH-induced GH-increase (max 47.2 +/- 13.0 mU/l) before
clonidine. In vitro, clonidine had no stimulatory effect on GHRH-stimulated GH
secretion. These findings are compatible with clonidine leading to stimulation of
GH by inducing endogenous GHRH release.

PMID: 2514051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1989 May;57(5):192-7.

[The problems of L-dopa therapy in the course of Parkinson syndrome].

[Article in German]

Emskötter T(1), Lachenmayer L, Heidenreich C.

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Universitätsklinik Hamburg-Eppendorf.

101 patients with Parkinson's disease were analyzed in a retrospective study to
evaluate the influence of L-Dopa monotherapy, duration of the disease and age at 
onset on the clinical course of the syndrome. The effects of L-Dopa dosage
adjustments after hospitalization were particularly considered.RESULTS: patients 
with late onset of symptoms showed a more accelerated deterioration as compared
to those with early manifestation of the disease who also were less severely
affected. Patients treated with L-Dopa for more than five years had a greater
neurological deficit score than patients who had not received L-Dopa. Besides a
more severe course, these patients also exhibited significantly more dyskinesias 
and on-off-phenomena. It should be emphasized that in our study, 73% of the 101
patients had been treated inadequately prior to admission to our clinic. The
extent of neurological deficit could be improved by L-Dopa dose adjustments in
those cases. Only in 11% of cases, an augmentation of the dopa medication was
found to be effective in improving the clinical syndrome, whereas in 43%, a
substantial reduction of dosage was necessary and resulted in a marked
improvement of the clinical syndrome.

PMID: 2737589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):221-5.

The likelihood of remaining normotensive following antihypertensive drug
withdrawal.

Mitchell A(1), Haynes RB, Adsett CA, Bellissimo A, Wilczynski N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the proportion and characteristics of mild hypertensives 
who remain normotensive after withdrawal from drug treatment.
DESIGN: Longitudinal descriptive study.
SETTING: A university family practice unit (FPU) and a large steel company
(DOFASCO) in Hamilton, Ontario.
PATIENTS: Participants were 107 of 125 (86%) eligible hypertensives at the two
sites; 103 (96%) subjects completed the study.
INTERVENTION: Subjects discontinued antihypertensive medication and were followed
until blood pressure (BP) became elevated or for 12 months, whichever was
shorter.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: BPs were monitored according to a predefined
schedule and before, during, and after mental and physical stress tests.
Thirty-eight (37%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 27-46%) subjects remained
normotensive at 12 months. Predictors of remaining normotensive included lower
medicated standing diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (87.6 versus 91.8 mm Hg, 95% CI
for the difference 2.2-6.2, p less than 0.001) and longer duration of
normotension on drugs (12.6 months versus 8.7, 95% CI for the difference 0.9-6.9,
p = 0.012). There was no significant relationship between maintenance of
normotension and age, medication potency, duration of hypertension, weight, lying
BP, change in heart rate, or BP during mental or physical stress tests; the power
to detect a clinically important difference in lying DBP was 99% but for other
variables was lower (21-75%).
CONCLUSIONS: The probability of hypertensives' remaining normotensive for one
year after drug withdrawal increases as the medicated standing DBP decreases and 
as the number of months of BP control while on medication increases. Studies with
larger sample sizes are warranted to determine whether other variables may be
significant predictors.

PMID: 2723835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):216-20.

Access to medical care in a medically indigent population.

Akin BV(1), Rucker L, Hubbell FA, Cygan RW, Waitzkin H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Primary Care, University of California 
Irvine Medical Center, Orange 92668-6836.

OBJECTIVE: To study nature and extent of barriers to access to medical care in a 
single county and to define the nature of the illnesses in a population affected 
by those barriers.
DESIGN: Descriptive study of consecutive patients not able to obtain medical care
because of financial or other barriers. Financial barriers and medical diagnoses 
were categorized and the severity of illness and impact of unavailability of
medical services were judged by a panel of internists using consensus analysis.
The likelihood of obtaining care after refusal of assistance was also evaluated.
SETTING: A social services eligibility office on the grounds of an urban,
university teaching hospital that serves a largely medically indigent population.
PATIENTS: 200 patients who presented to eligibility workers seeking financial
assistance.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Sixty percent could not obtain care because they were
illegal aliens, 40% could not obtain care because they did not meet the strict
criteria of the assistance programs. Sixty percent of patients had a moderate to 
high likelihood of long-term disability from their illnesses; 38% of a subgroup
were not able to find care four weeks after entering the study, and these
patients appeared to have more severe disease than those who were able to find
care.
CONCLUSIONS: Many medically indigent persons with significant illnesses face
serious financial barriers to access to medical care.

PMID: 2723834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):202-8.

How accurate are faculty evaluations of clinical competence?

Herbers JE Jr(1), Noel GL, Cooper GS, Harvey J, Pangaro LN, Weaver MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC
20307-5001.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the degree and sources of variability faculty evaluations
of residents for the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) Clinical
Evaluation Exercise (CEX).
DESIGN: Videotaped simulated CEX containing programmed resident strengths and
weaknesses shown to faculty evaluators, with responses elicited using the
open-ended form recommended by the ABIM followed by detailed questionnaires.
SETTING: University hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-two full-time faculty internists.
INTERVENTION: After the open-ended form was completed and collected, faculty
members rated the resident's performance on a five-point scale and rated the
importance of various aspects of the history and physical examination for the
patient shown.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Very few of the resident's strengths and
weaknesses were mentioned on the open-ended form, although responses to specific 
questions revealed that faculty members actually had observed many errors and
some strengths that they had failed to document. Faculty members also displayed
wide variance in the global assessment of the resident: 50% rated him marginal,
25% failed him, and 25% rated him satisfactory. Only for performance areas not
directly related to the patient's problems could substantial variability be
explained by disagreement on standards.
CONCLUSIONS: Faculty internists vary markedly in their observations of a resident
and document little. To be useful for resident feedback and evaluation, exercises
such as the CEX may need to use more specific and detailed forms to document
strengths and weaknesses, and faculty evaluators probably need to be trained as
observers.

PMID: 2723833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):209-15.

Does screening proctosigmoidoscopy result in reduced mortality from colorectal
cancer? A critical review of the literature.

Ow CL(1), Lemar HJ, Weaver MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Fitzsimons Army Medical Center, Aurora, CO 80045-5001.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Mar-Apr;5(2):181.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the strength of the evidence in the literature that
screening proctosigmoidoscopy reduces colorectal cancer mortality.
DESIGN: All English-language studies reporting mortality or survival from
screening proctosigmoidoscopy published since 1960 were critically reviewed.
DATA EXTRACTION: Fifteen references reported on five studies of screening
proctosigmoidoscopy. Two authors independently reviewed each reference using
explicit methodologic criteria, particularly for potential sources of bias.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the five studies, four used historical controls
and were susceptible to bias, especially self-selection and lead-time bias. Only 
the Kaiser-Permanente Multiphasic Health Check-up study collected a
representative patient sample from a defined population, had randomly allocated
controls, and avoided multiple sources of bias. There was a reduction in
mortality from a group of seven potentially postponable causes of mortality,
including colorectal cancer, although no difference in overall mortality between 
screened and control groups was found. This study was not designed to determine
specifically the impact of screening proctosigmoidoscopy on mortality from
colorectal cancer, and suggested that most of the reduction in colorectal cancer 
deaths was due to a lower incidence in the screened group, which could not be
attributed to polypectomy. The benefit of screening proctosigmoidoscopy in this
study, if any, was small.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence in the literature is inadequate to determine whether or
not screening proctosigmoidoscopy has an impact on colorectal cancer mortality,
but the best available data suggest that the benefit is small, at best.

PMID: 2656938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):190-4.

Initial management of serious urinary tract infection: epidemiologic guidelines.

Dolan JG(1), Bordley DR, Polito R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Rochester General Hospital, NY 14621.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain information necessary for the development of initial
antibiotic treatment guidelines for patients with serious urinary tract
infections.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
SETTING: The medical service of a 533-bed university-affiliated community
hospital.
PATIENTS: 253 unselected patients hospitalized between January 1985 and December 
1987 given principal discharge diagnoses of urinary tract infection,
pyelonephritis, or gram-negative rod bacteremia originating in the urinary tract.
RESULTS: Three clinically distinct groups were identified: women under 50 years
old, older women, and men. Escherichia coli was isolated from 93% of young women,
70% of older women, and 46% of men. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was isolated from 39% 
of men with one or more urinary tract risk factors, including recent or recurrent
urinary tract infections and known genitourinary tract abnormality. The overall
prevalence of Group D streptococci was only 1%. More than 20% of the patients in 
each group were bacteremic. In all groups, resistance to ampicillin and
first-generation cephalosporins was common. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was
active in 98% of young women and 85% of older women and men without urinary risk 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Age and gender identify clinically important subgroups of patients
with serious urinary tract infections. Pending culture results, all patients
should be considered bacteremic, ampicillin alone should not be prescribed, and
antibiotics effective against P. aeruginosa should be given to men, especially
those with risk factors.

PMID: 2656937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 May-Jun;4(3):183-9.

Calcium supplementation in premenstrual syndrome: a randomized crossover trial.

Thys-Jacobs S(1), Ceccarelli S, Bierman A, Weisman H, Cohen MA, Alvir J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Metropolitan Hospital, New York Medical College, New
York.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of calcium supplementation in women with
premenstrual syndrome (PMS).
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind crossover trial.
SETTING: Outpatient medical clinic of a large city hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Seventy-eight women were initially screened. Trial selection was
based on a history of recurrent PMS symptoms and on the results of a prospective 
assessment of daily symptom scores. Only women with symptom scores during the
late luteal phase that were at least 50% greater than those during the
intermenstrual phase were selected. Thirty-three women completed the trial.
INTERVENTION: A preliminary evaluation included physical examination, routine
laboratory tests, dietary assessment, and psychiatric evaluation. Each
participant received six months of treatment involving three months of daily
calcium supplementation (1,000 mg of calcium carbonate) and three months of
placebo.
MEASUREMENTS: Efficacy was assessed prospectively by changes in daily symptom
scores over a six-month period and retrospectively by an overall global
assessment. Multivariate repeated measures analysis of variance on symptom
ratings derived from daily PMS symptom scores demonstrated a reduction in
symptoms on calcium treatment during both the luteal (p = 0.011) and the
menstrual phases (p = 0.032) of the reproductive cycle. Calcium supplementation
had no effect during the intermenstrual phase. Retrospective assessment of
overall symptoms confirmed this reduction: 73% of the women reported fewer
symptoms during the treatment phase on calcium, 15% preferred placebo, and 12%
had no clear preference. Three premenstrual factors (negative affect [p = 0.045];
water retention [p = 0.003]; pain [p = 0.036]) and one menstrual factor (pain [p 
= 0.02]) were significantly alleviated by calcium.
CONCLUSION: Calcium supplementation is a simple and effective treatment for
premenstrual syndrome, but further studies will be needed to determine its
precise role in PMS.

PMID: 2656936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Pediatr. 1989 May;114(5):742-7.

Decline in serum antibody to the capsule of Haemophilus influenzae type b in the 
immediate postimmunization period.

Daum RS(1), Sood SK, Osterholm MT, Pramberg JC, Granoff PD, White KE, Granoff DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine what change, if any, occurs in the serum
anticapsular antibody concentration immediately after immunization with either
Haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide vaccine (PRP) or a vaccine 
consisting of the capsular polysaccharide conjugated to diphtheria toxoid
(PRP-D).
SETTING AND PATIENTS: Children: a convenience sample of 32 healthy 2-year-old
children from diverse locales. Adults: a convenience sample of 16 healthy adults 
chosen from employees at the Washington University and Tulane University schools 
of medicine.
INTERVENTIONS: PRP or PRP-D vaccine administered to the adults and serum obtained
daily for 5 days. PRP vaccine was administered to the children, and serum was
sampled 2 or 3 days or 4 or 5 days after immunization, or both.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Decline in serum antibody in all seven (100%)
adult recipients of PRP. The nadir occurred on days 1 to 3, and the decrease
average 26.0% of the preimmunization concentration. Eight (89%) of nine PRP-D
recipients had a similar decline that averaged 25.9%. Of 29 children, 20 (69%)
had a decline that averaged 14.7%. The magnitude of anticapsular antibody present
before immunization was correlated with the magnitude of the observed decrease.
CONCLUSIONS: A decrease in serum anticapsular antibody occurs in most children
and adults immunized with PRP (adults and children) or PRP-D (adults). Such a
decrease might transiently increase the risk of invasive disease if it occurred
during a period of asymptomatic colonization with H. influenzae type b.

PMID: 2785591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Jpn J Antibiot. 1989 May;42(5):1173-93.

[Pharmacokinetic and clinical studies on cefodizime in the pediatric field.
Pediatric Study Group of Cefodizime].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujii R(1), Arimasu O, Meguro H, Hiruma F, Sugie N, Abe T, Nakazawa S, Sato H,
Narita A, Matsumoto K, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Teikyo University.

A multi-center open study was conducted to investigate cefodizime (CDZM), a newly
developed cephem antibiotic, from pharmacokinetic, bacteriological and clinical
aspects, in the pediatric field with the participation of 17 institutions and
their related facilities. The results are summarized as follows: 1. Serum
concentrations and urinary excretion: The pharmacokinetics in pediatric patients 
was investigated with a dose of 20 mg/kg, via a bolus intravenous injection or
intravenous drip infusion over 30 or 60 minutes. The results were nearly the same
as those in adult patients. Mean serum concentrations 5 minutes after a bolus
intravenous injections were: 105.5, 264.0 and 461.7 micrograms/ml with 10, 20 and
40 mg/kg, respectively, and T 1/2 (beta)'s for the 3 dosages were 1.75, 1.92 and 
1.88 hours, respectively. With 30-minute intravenous drip infusion, mean serum
concentrations at the end of infusion were: 90.5 micrograms/ml with a dose level 
of 10 mg/kg, 178.3 micrograms/ml with 20 mg/kg, and 322.8 micrograms/ml with 40
mg/kg, and T 1/2 (beta)'s for these dosages were 1.90, 2.15 and 1.93 hours,
respectively. With 60-minute intravenous drip infusion, mean serum concentrations
at the end of infusion were: 66.3 micrograms/ml with a dose level of 10 mg/kg,
136.0 micrograms/ml with 20 mg/kg and 259.2 micrograms/ml with 40 mg/kg, and T
1/2 (beta)'s for these dosages were 1.43, 2.05 and 1.46 hours, respectively. In 8
hours after administration of CDZM, urinary excretion rates were 82.1, 77.7 and
76.5% for bolus intravenous injections of 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg,
respectively, and 83.3, 71.3 and 68.1% for 30-minute intravenous drip infusions
of 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg, and 84.4 and 84.3% for 60-minute intravenous 
drip infusions of 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg, respectively. 2. Concentrations in
cerebrospinal fluid: Penetrations into cerebrospinal fluid in patients with
purulent meningitis reached levels of 1.96-9.48 micrograms/ml with administration
of CDZM at 50 mg/kg in acute cases within 6 days after onset. The penetration
rates of CDZM were about a median range among injectable beta-lactam agents.
3.CLINICAL RESULTS: Of 457 cases treated with CDZM, 53 cases were excluded from
the clinical evaluation. Clinical efficacies were evaluated as "excellent" in 126
and "good" in 78 out of 221 case from which causative agents were isolated, with 
an efficacy rate of 92.3%. Efficacies were "excellent" in 97 and "good" in 69 out
of 183 cases from which pathogens were not isolated giving an efficacy rate of
90.7%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2664256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1989 May;37(5):259-64.

[Urokinase in the therapy of spontaneous angina].

[Article in Italian]

Ibba GV, Terrosu PF, Innocenti P, Franceschino V, Contini GM, Delpini A, Pes R.

In an open non-comparative clinical study, 19 patients with spontaneous angina
pectoris admitted to hospital with attacks lasting greater than 10 minutes,
unresponsive to nitrate and/or calcium antagonist treatment, at least 2 ECG
readings of raised (greater than or equal to 1.5 mm) or lowered (greater than or 
equal to 1 mm) ST segment not attributable to earlier AMI in the same area, were 
treated after the interruption of conventional treatment (mean 47 +/- 34.2 min)
with 2 million IU endovenous UK in 15 mins followed by 1 million IU endovenous UK
in 60 mins. Sixty minutes after UK administration was terminated, they were given
a bolus of 5000 IU calcium heparin, followed by 1000 IU per hour for 2 days.
Coronary angiography (Judkins technique) was performed before the start of UK
treatment and 15, 30, 45, 60 and 75 minutes into it.RESULTS: Basal coronarography
showed only "multiple organic stenosis" in 5 out of the 19 patients, a more
complex situation suggestive of thrombi in the coronary arteries in 14.
Subsequent angiographies (mean 30 mins later) revealed coronarographic
improvement in 11 out of the 19 (58%), or 11 out of 14 (78.5%) if we exclude
those with simple stenosis. Angina attacks were significantly lower in the 8 days
after UK treatment than in the week before it in terms of number (4 v. 1; p less 
than 0.01), global severity (7 v. 1.5; p less than 0.01) and global duration (45 
v. 4.25 min; p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2779805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Minerva Pediatr. 1989 May;41(5):259-62.

[Effect of cimetropium bromide in the treatment of colic in the first 3 months of
life. Randomized study].

[Article in Italian]

Gomirato G, Bonomi A, Bensi G, Crosato M.

20% of unweaned children aged below three months suffer from so-called gaseous
colic. The effectiveness and tolerance of an antimuscarinic drug with high
spasmolytic activity on the smooth visceral musculature, cimetropium bromide, has
been evaluated, excluding cases of intolerance to cow's milk and other
pathologies. 40 random patients of both sexes of average age 4.4 weeks (symptoms 
lasting for one week with crying fits lasting for more than 90 minutes
consecutively, on at least 3 days a week) split into two groups of 20 patients
each were studied.TREATMENT: A) 1.2 mg/kg 1 hour before bottle; B) 2.0 mg/kg 1
hour before bottle. Speedy reduction in the number of crying episodes (Group A:
from 2.8 +/- 0.3 to 0.1 +/- 0.1; Group B: from 2.8 +/- 0.4 to 0.6 +/- 0.4;
differences n.s.) and in their duration (Group A: 99 min +/- 10 min to 5 min +/- 
3 min; Group B: from 121 min +/- 11 min to 15 min +/- 9 min; differences n.s.).
The pharmacological treatment was considered: Group A: very good in 75% of cases;
Group B: very good in 70% of cases. In Group B 4 episodes of stypsis occurred and
these resolved immediately upon suspension of the drug. Given the equal
effectiveness and better tolerance, the use of cimetropium bromide is recommended
at the lower dosage.

PMID: 2796881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1989 May;37(5):500-3.

[Treatment of superinfections caused by pyocyanic bacillus in patients with
mucoviscidosis. Efficacy of cefsulodin in combination with an aminoglycoside].

[Article in French]

Jehanne M.

Author information: 
Centre Hélio-Marin, Roscoff.

Cefsulodin is a third generation cephalosporin with specific antipseudomonas
activity. We used cefsulodin in combination with aminoglycosides in 15 cystic
fibrosis patients treatments. There were 13 children or adolescents, 4 to 19
years old with chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infections: 9 patients had
acute exacerbations of infection with occasionally important respiratory
insufficiency and 5 patients had a regimen of regular treatment every 3 months.
Cefsulodin was given after record of bacterial sensitivity to antibiotics, at the
mean posology of 100 mg/kg, IV, tid. The combination with aminoglycosides was
systematic: tobramycin (6 mg/kg/day), netilmicin (6 mg/kg/day) or amikacin (30
mg/kg/day). Duration of treatment was 9 to 15 days.RESULTS: --clinical
improvement in all patients, important in 13 patients and moderate in 2
patients;--respiratory function improvement in 11 patients;--pulmonary
radiography improvement in 10 patients;--Pseudomonas were eradicated in 8
patients but temporarily and were found after treatment in 7 patients, 5 with
lower number, 2 with higher number. Clinical and biological tolerance was
excellent. The present study shows the interest of cefsulodin use in combination 
with aminoglycosides in this pathology.

PMID: 2780107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 May-Jun;15(3):263-6.

Influences on children's attitudes toward alcohol consumption.

Castiglia PT, Glenister AM, Haughey BP, Kanski GW.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: To determine whether children's attitudes toward alcohol
consumption changed as they grew older and to what extent peers might influence
the decision to drink alcoholic beverages.
METHOD: A cross-sectional descriptive study of 500 children ages 8-15 years was
performed using a questionnaire. Data analysis included descriptive statistics
and contingency analysis.
RESULTS: Age was the only variable significantly related to decision making.
Attitudes toward alcohol were more favorable in older children. Peer influence
did not appear to affect drinking behavior.
CONCLUSION: Older children (ages 14-15) are more favorably disposed to drinking
than younger children. Children may be more influenced by parents than is
realized. Parental guidance just prior to age 14 may be an effective
intervention.

PMID: 2786620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Rev Clin Esp. 1989 May;184(8):409-14.

[Pilot study of arterial blood pressure in the school children of Girona and its 
province].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez Guerra I, Vilardell Gil L, Canela Soler J, Puyol Gruart J, Callis Bracons
L, Pascual Turón R.

The arterial blood pressure was measured in 1,494 school children (810 boys and
684 girls) 5 to 14 years old who attended 46 schools in the province of
Girona.OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY: to establish the distribution of arterial blood
pressure in school children in our community in empirical percentiles according
to chronologic and anthropometric variables (age, height, weight and body
surface). In our study the systolic arterial blood pressure increased
significantly (p less than 0.001) in both sexes in all the variables studied. The
simple correlations in decreasing order were, in boys: body surface, weight,
height and age, and in girls: weight, body surface, height and age. However,
there was no correlation between the diastolic arterial blood pressure in either 
sex with the variables studied.

PMID: 2781073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1989 May;42(5):318-21.

[Cardiovascular pathology in Marfan syndrome. Study of 11 children using
two-dimensional echocardiography].

[Article in Spanish]

Modesto C, Cabrera A, Pastor E, Hernáez E, Sarrionandia MJ, Zubeldia J, Galdeano 
JM, Cabrera JA.

From 1983 to 1987 we have studied by two-dimensional echocardiography 11
pediatric patients with Marfan's syndrome. All of them presented cardiovascular
lesions localized mainly in the aortic and mitral valves and in the ascending
aorta. Nine patients had a dilated aortic ring in both transversal and
longitudinal diameters 2.03 and 2.29 cm/m2 of body surface (bs), respectively.
The average value of the aortic valvular area was 4.71 cm2/m2 bs. The 9 patients 
presented also dilatation of the ascending aorta (2.01 cm/cm2 bs). There was
thickening of the mitral valve in 5 cases and a prolapse was present in 8 (73%). 
In 4 cases the prolapse was localized in anterior leaflet valve in 2 in the
posterior and in 2 in both. The maximal mitral valve diastolic area was 3.25
cm2/m2 bs. None of them has needed during follow up valvular replacement.
Considering the importance of this cardiovascular disease and knowing its
unpredictable evolution we recommend, in the absence of valvular insufficiency,
and annual echocardiographic reevaluation, and more often if valvular
insufficiency is already present.IN CONCLUSION: two-dimensional echocardiographic
is useful and necessary for the diagnosis and follow up of patients with Marfan's
syndrome.

PMID: 2772367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 May;8(5):377-83.

[Cerebral vascular disorders and arterial hypertension: cardiologic and
neurologic aspects].

[Article in Portuguese]

Franco AS, Ferro J, Monteiro J, Paiva MF, Mota E, da Costa JN.

OBJECTIVE: To report and discuss some cardiologic, neurologic and radiologic
aspects in different types of stroke (AVC) present in hypertensive patients.
DESIGN: Retrospective study in patients with acute cerebrovascular accident (AVC)
and high blood pressure (HTA). Separate this population in three groups according
to the results of computerized tomography scanning of the brain (TAC): hemorrhage
(H) cerebral infarction (IC) and lacune (L). In each group describe the findings.
SETTING: Department of Internal Medicine in a University Hospital of Lisbon.
PATIENTS: Thirty-four patients, after having discarded 8 because their TAC were
normal. Twenty were men (M), 14 women (F) with a total age average of 58 years.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients had AVC, HTA and underwent initial
TAC. For each group were considered: Past history, cardiac repercussions of HTA, 
neurologic features and the localisations of cerebral lesions. For statistical
study were used the Student T Test. There was 45% of IC, 24% of H and 26% of L.
In past history was found 35% of cardiac diseases and 24% of diabetes. There
wasn't any difference in blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) between the
groups. Fifty-six percent had an important cardiac repercussion, with 72% of
alterations of ventricular repolarization and 35% of coronary heart diseases.
Both were more prevalent in IC than in the others. Twenty percent of H were in
physical activity, 20% had a progressive start and in 10% there were meningeal
signals. The site of cerebral lesions were characteristical, specially the H and 
L and 60% of H were thalamic. There wasn't any lacune neither in the cerebral
stem nor in the cerebellum. It was reviewed some theoric aspects of neurologic
feature.
CONCLUSIONS: IC is the more frequent AVC in hypertensive patients. The cardiac
involvement, is the most frequent disease in past history. The cardiac
repercussion of HTA is more important in IC. The findings were insufficient to
well characterize the neurologic feature. Sometime TAC and seldom magnetic
resonance are necessary. The localisations, specially of H and L are the same
that have been described in medical literature.

PMID: 2631849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 May;8(5):367-70.

[Non-invasive evaluation of left ventricular function (systolic time interval) in
patients using double-chamber pacemakers programmed on DDD and VVI].

[Article in Portuguese]

Paisana F, Providência LA, Cristóvão J, Faria H, Pêgo M, Calisto J, Morais J,
Andrade C, Monteiro V, Gouveia ML, et al.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate changes on left ventricular function as assessed by
systolic time intervals (STI), by programming "physiological" pacemakers either
on VVI or DDD mode.
STUDY DESIGN: Comparison of STI values--electromechanical systole (QS2); left
ventricular ejection time (LVET); pre-ejection period (PEP); PEP/LVET--in
patients submitted to double chamber pacing programmed in DDD or VVI mode.
SETTING: Cardiac Pacing Center in a Department of Cardiology at a University
Hospital.
PATIENTS: We have studied 12 patients (3 men, 9 women), mean age 56.16 years
(range 25-76 years) treated with double chamber pacing.
INTERVENTIONS: Initial measurements of STI in DDD or one week in VVI mode, and
again after one week in DDD mode.
RESULTS: Significant changes were found after the first week in VVI pacing,
versus baseline determination in DDD pacing, for LVET, PEP, and PEP/LVET (p less 
than 0.05). At the end of the second week (DDD pacing), there were also
statistically significant differences for QS2 (P less than 0.05), LVET (P less
than 0.01) and PEP/LVET (P less than 0.05) values when compared with the ones
obtained in VVI pacing, at the end of the preceding week. No significant changes 
were found between the initial and the final STI determinations (both in DDD
pacing).
CONCLUSION: We concluded for a better performance of the left ventricle at rest
when "physiological" pacing is compared with VVI pacing.

PMID: 2631848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 May;8(5):359-65.

[Diagnostic value of the submaximal treadmill exercise test in the subacute phase
of myocardial infarct].

[Article in Portuguese]

Adragão P, Aleixo A, Gomes RS.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the diagnostic value of treadmill submaximal exercise
testing (TSET), early after myocardial infarction (MI) under medical treatment,
evaluating the ST changes predominantly.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 65 patients, 62 males and 3 females, mean age 52 years
with demonstrated MI under clinical, electrocardiographic and enzymatic criteria 
were evaluated with TSET before hospital discharge. Thrombolytic therapy in acute
phase of MI was done in 45 of the patients. All patients underwent angiographic
studies with left ventriculography and selective coronariography.
RESULTS: Of all TSET variables considered (Treadmill time, ST segment, presence
of chest pain, systolic pressure, double product and presence of ventricular
arrythmias) the single most important predictor for high-risk groups like left
main disease and three vessels disease, was ST changes alone or associated with
exercise precordial pain, with a sensitivity of 100% to left main and 83% to
three vessels disease. In the thrombolytic group we did not find any differences 
related with reperfusion.
IN CONCLUSION: TSET is a useful, noninvasive, and safe method for risk
stratification after MI mainly when ST segment changes are considered alone or
with stress precordial pain, predicting high risk groups, namely left main or
three vessels disease patients.

PMID: 2631847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1989 May;29(5):547-53.

[Sleep apnea in well-controlled myasthenia gravis].

[Article in Japanese]

Shintani S, Shiozawa Z, Shindo K, Matsui T, Tsunoda S.

Polygraphic monitoring of the respiratory status during sleep provides a
definitive test for the presence of the sleep apnea syndrome. This syndrome has
been recognized in various kinds of neurological disorders. However, as far as we
know, there have been no reports of describing the sleep apnea syndrome in
myasthenia gravis (MG). We conducted overnight polygraphic sleep studies of 10
patients of clinically well-controlled MG.PATIENTS: We examined 10 patients of MG
(4 men and 6 women). The subtypes of MG were IIA(1), IIB(8) and V(1) according to
Osserman's criteria.
RESULTS: Six patients, with an average age of 47.8 and the average duration of
6.2 years, had polysomnographically obstructive and central types of sleep apnea,
appearing longer than 10 seconds and more than 30 times in one night. Their mean 
Apnea Index (AI) was 14.6. The duration of mean apnea was 23.4 seconds and 99.0
times the average frequency. On the other hand, in four patients of MG, averaged 
age at 30.8 and for a 0.9-year duration, the sleep apnea syndrome was never seen.
Therefore, the longest duration of MG tended to have the sleep apnea syndrome.
DISCUSSION: Six out of the 10 patients of MG had obstructive and central types of
the sleep apnea syndrome. Since their respiratory functions examined in a daytime
were normal and the physical findings concerned with MG were well controlled by
medications, our findings of nocturnal sleep apnea might be indicative of a
central cholinergic system disturbance in MG during sleep.

PMID: 2791401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 1989 May;28(5):277-80, 314.

[Thrombolytic effect of a moderate dose of urokinase in acute myocardial
infarction].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen CG, Wang YP, Li ZH.

It appears that Chinese patients had more bleeding complications during
anticoagulative and thrombolytic therapies than western populations. To determine
the effect of a moderate dosage of urokinase for Chinese patients with evolving
acute myocardial infarction (AMI), we studied 17 patients with AMI. The patients 
were divided into 2 groups: Urokinase group (UG) and control group (CG). Seven
patients in UG, having AMI 5.1 +/- 1.3 hours after the onset received intravenous
urokinase 250,000-450,000 units within 30 minutes and then were treated with
heparin. Ten patients in CG, having AMI 12.1 +/- 10.1 hours after the onset
received conventional therapy as well as heparin. The successful reperfusion of
coronary artery was assessed noninvasively using peak CPK level less than 18
hours and elevated ST segment normalization within 24 hours as the
criteria.RESULTS: Successful reperfusion was found in 5 of 7 patients in UG and
in only 1 of 10 patients in CG (P less than 0.05). No gastrointestinal and
cerebrovascular bleeding or other major bleeding complications were observed in
UG, while 1 of 10 patients in CG had gastric bleeding requiring transfusion. The 
mortality during 2 months of hospitalization was 2/10 (20%) in CG, but no patient
in UG died during 2 months of hospital stay. The results of the study suggest
that moderate dosage of urokinase could achieve reperfusion in majority of
Chinese patients with AMI and may have less bleeding complications. However,
randomized and large-group patient studies are needed to confirm the presented
results.

PMID: 2805966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. BMJ. 1989 Apr 29;298(6681):1152-7.

Sensitivity to insulin during treatment with atenolol and metoprolol: a
randomised, double blind study of effects on carbohydrate and lipoprotein
metabolism in hypertensive patients.

Pollare T(1), Lithell H, Selinus I, Berne C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Jun 10;298(6687):1581-2.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of metoprolol and atenolol on carbohydrate and 
lipid metabolism and on insulin response to an intravenous glucose load.
DESIGN: Randomised, double blind, double dummy, controlled crossover trial.
SETTING: University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.
PATIENTS: 60 Patients with primary hypertension (diastolic blood pressure when
resting supine 95-119 mm Hg on at least two occasions during four to six weeks of
treatment with placebo) randomised to receive either metoprolol (n = 30) or
atenolol (n = 30) during the first treatment period.
INTERVENTIONS: Placebo was given for a run in period of four to six weeks.
Metoprolol 100 mg twice daily or atenolol 25 mg twice daily was then given for 16
weeks. The two drugs were then exchanged and treatment continued for a further 16
weeks.
END POINT: Evaluation of effects of treatment with metoprolol and atenolol on
glucose, insulin, and lipid metabolism and glucose disposal mediated by insulin.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Reduction of blood pressure was similar and
satisfactory during treatment with both drugs. Glucose uptake mediated by insulin
was measured during a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp to evaluate patients'
sensitivity to insulin. Glucose uptake decreased from 5.6 to 4.5 mg/kg/min when
patients were taking metoprolol and from 5.6 to 4.9 mg/kg/min when they were
taking atenolol. Both drugs caused a small increase in fasting plasma insulin and
blood glucose concentrations and glycated haemoglobin concentration. Despite
decreased sensitivity to insulin the increase in insulin concentration in
response to an intravenous glucose tolerance test was small, suggesting
inhibition of release of insulin. Very low density lipoprotein and low density
lipoprotein triglyceride concentrations were increased with both drugs and high
density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration was decreased. Low density
lipoprotein cholesterol concentration was not affected.
CONCLUSIONS: Long term use of metoprolol and atenolol causes metabolic
abnormalities that may be related to the increased incidence of diabetes in
patients with hypertension who are treated pharmacologically. These results may
help to explain why the two drugs have failed consistently to reduce the
incidence of coronary heart disease in several large scale studies.

PMCID: PMC1836369
PMID: 2500169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. BMJ. 1989 Apr 29;298(6681):1147-52.

Do antihypertensive drugs precipitate diabetes in predisposed men?

Skarfors ET(1), Lithell HO, Selinus I, Aberg H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Uppsala University, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the influence of antihypertensive treatment and metabolic 
characteristics on the development of diabetes mellitus in middle aged men.
DESIGN: Prospective study over an average of nine years.
SETTING: Community based health survey of middle aged men carried out at the
University of Uppsala.
SUBJECTS: Seventy three hypertensive men aged 49-54 and 65 normotensive controls 
matched for body mass index, glucose disappearance rate (k value) at an
intravenous glucose tolerance test, and serum triglyceride and cholesterol
concentrations.
INTERVENTIONS: Hypertensive group was treated with beta blockers, thiazides,
hydralazine, or combinations of these drugs. Treatment was not randomised.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Intravenous glucose tolerance, fasting blood
glucose and serum lipid and insulin concentrations, body weight and height, three
skinfold measurements, and blood pressure were recorded both during an initial
health screening survey in 1970-3 and at a follow up survey in 1980-3. In the
period between the two surveys 12 hypertensive men and two controls developed
diabetes. Review of values obtained at the initial survey showed that the
hypertensive men who developed diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance could be
distinguished from those hypertensive men who did not by virtue of a higher
fasting serum insulin concentration (26.1 v 15.2 mU/l (confidence interval of
difference -15.2 to -6.2)), a lower peak serum insulin concentration (78.9 v 94.3
mU/l (confidence interval of difference -1.1 to 41.1)), and a lower k value (1.29
v 1.68 (confidence interval of difference -0.02 to 0.68)). The insulin index
(peak insulin concentration divided by fasting insulin concentration), however,
decreased significantly in the hypertensive men over time irrespective of whether
they developed diabetes but did not change in the controls. Furthermore, the
serum triglyceride concentration increased in the treated group and decreased in 
the controls.
CONCLUSION: A severalfold difference in the incidence of diabetes between treated
hypertensive and non-treated, normotensive men may be a consequence of the
treatment, which may be particularly deleterious in men predisposed to diabetes.

PMCID: PMC1836358
PMID: 2500168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. BMJ. 1989 Apr 29;298(6681):1142-6.

Effects of fibrinolytic inhibitors on mortality from upper gastrointestinal
haemorrhage.

Henry DA(1), O'Connell DL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether fibrinolytic inhibitors are of value when given to
patients with upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
DESIGN: Meta-analysis of six randomised double blind placebo controlled trials.
Two methods used for obtaining an overall estimate of effect, including a random 
effects model incorporating any heterogeneity of outcome in the estimate of the
overall treatment effect.
SETTING: Inpatient care in hospitals in the United Kingdom, Sweden, and
Australia.
PATIENTS: 1267 Patients admitted to hospital with primary diagnosis of acute
upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Five of the six trials included a high
proportion of elderly patients. Most patients were bleeding from peptic ulcers in
the stomach and duodenum (43-88%) or gastric erosions (4-23%). A variable
proportion had a degree of clinical shock at entry.
INTERVENTIONS: Tranexamic acid 3-6 g/day given intravenously for two or three
days followed by 3-6 g/day by mouth for a further three to five days (four
trials) or 4.5-12 g/day by mouth for two to seven days (two trials).
END POINTS: Frequency of recurrent haemorrhage, need for surgery, and death.
MAIN RESULTS: Treatment with tranexamic acid was associated with a 20-30%
reduction in the rate of rebleeding, a 30-40% reduction (95% confidence interval 
10% to 60%) in mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with tranexamic acid may be of value to patients
considered to be at risk of dying after an upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage.

PMCID: PMC1836395
PMID: 2500167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. BMJ. 1989 Apr 22;298(6680):1061-4.

Latex agglutination test for diagnosing pneumococcal pneumonia in children in
developing countries.

O'Neill KP(1), Lloyd-Evans N, Campbell H, Forgie IM, Sabally S, Greenwood BM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratories, Fajara, The Gambia.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare and assess the sensitivity and specificity of a latex
agglutination test specific for the serotype of antigen in diagnosing
pneumococcal pneumonia in Gambian children.
DESIGN: Comparison of agglutination test specific for serotype with culture of
blood and lung aspirates, countercurrent immunoelectrophoresis, and commercial
latex agglutination tests in diagnosing pneumococcal pneumonia. Cross reaction
studies and investigation of 102 control children to determine specificity of
agglutination test specific for serotype.
SETTING: General medical ward of Medical Research Council laboratories, The
Gambia.
PATIENTS: 101 Gambian children aged between 2 months and 10 years admitted with
severe pneumonia.
INTERVENTIONS: Serum samples were boiled and treated with edetic acid, and urine 
samples were boiled and concentrated 25 times before testing.
END POINT: A latex agglutination test specific for the serotype of pneumococcal
antigen that is sensitive and highly specific for detecting pneumococcus in the
urine of patients with pneumococcal pneumonia.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Concentrated urine samples from 16 of the 21
children (76%) with pneumococcal pneumonia established by results of culture of
blood or lung aspirates gave a positive result with the agglutination test
specific for serotype, whereas only four of the 102 urine samples obtained from
control children without pneumonia gave positive results. The serotypes of
antigens detected in the urine of children with pneumococcal pneumonia and the
serotypes of pneumococci isolated from cultures of blood or lung aspirates were
the same in all cases.
CONCLUSIONS: When performed on urine samples the agglutination test specific for 
serotype has a high specificity and is more sensitive than culture of blood or
lung aspirates, commercial agglutination tests, or countercurrent
immunoelectrophoresis in identifying pneumococcal pneumonia. It is easy to use
and should be especially useful in communities with limited laboratory
facilities.

PIP: The objective of this study was to prepare and assess the sensitivity and
specificity of a latex agglutination test specific for the serotype of antigen in
diagnosing pneumococcal pneumonia in Gambian children. Among the measures
evaluated, there was a comparison of agglutination test specific for serotype
with blood and lung aspirate cultures, countercurrent immunoelectrophoresis, and 
commercial latex agglutination tests in the diagnosis of pneumococcal pneumonia. 
In addition, there were cross-reaction studies and investigation of 102 control
children to determine the specificity of agglutination tests specific for the
serotype. This evaluation was conducted in a general medical ward of the Medical 
Research Council Laboratories in the Gambia. 101 Gambian children between the
ages of 2 months-10 years with severe pneumonia were included in this study.
Serum samples were boiled and treated with edetic acid, and urine samples were
boiled and treated with edetic acid, and urine samples were boiled and
concentrated 25 times before testing. A latex agglutination test specific for the
serotype of the pneumococcal antigen that is sensitive and highly specific the
detecting pneumococcus in the urine of patients with pneumococcal pneumonia was
conducted. Concentrated urine samples from 16 of 21 children (76%) with
pneumococcal pneumonia established by results of culture of blood or lung
aspirates gave a positive result with the agglutination test specific for
serotype, whereas only 4 of 102 urine samples obtained from control children
without pneumonia gave positive results. The serotypes of antigens detected in
the urine of children with pneumococcal pneumonia and the serotypes of
pneumococci isolated from blood or lung aspirates cultures were the same in all
cases. When performed on urine samples, the agglutination test specific for
serotype has a high specificity and is more sensitive than the cultures of blood 
or lung aspirates, commercial agglutination tests, or countercurrent
immunoelectrophoresis in identifying pneumococcal pneumonia. It is easy to use
and should be most useful in communities where there are limited laboratory
facilities. author's modified
author's modified

PMCID: PMC1836447
PMID: 2497890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):648-52.

Encouraging primary care physicians to help smokers quit. A randomized,
controlled trial.

Cohen SJ(1), Stookey GK, Katz BP, Drook CA, Smith DM.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To increase the effect that primary care physicians have on
their patients who smoke.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial with 112 general internists and their
patients who smoke.
PATIENTS: Sample of 1420 patients from a general medicine clinic of a city-county
teaching hospital, who smoke at least one cigarette a day and were recruited
regardless of their interest in quitting smoking.
INTERVENTIONS: Physicians were randomly assigned to one of four groups:
participants who received a protocol for smoking management and a lecture on the 
consequences and management of smoking (control); in addition, had nicotine gum
freely available to patients (gum); had stickers attached to their smokers'
charts (reminder); or had both gum and reminders (both).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The percentage of patients with a return visit at 
6 months who quit smoking (alveolar carbon monoxide of less than nine parts per
million) was 1.3% (control), 7.7% (gum), 7.0% (reminders), and 6.3% (both). At 1 
year the percentages were 2.7%, 8.8%, 15.0%, and 9.6%, respectively. Subsequent
pairwise comparisons showed that the three intervention groups were not
significantly different, but that each was significantly different from the
control group (P less than 0.05). Physicians in all three intervention groups
spent significantly more time than did the physicians in the control group
counseling their patients about smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: The availability of nicotine gum or labeling the charts of smokers
can help primary care physicians increase their success rates two- to six-fold in
helping patients quit smoking. If all primary care physicians used these
procedures, they could help an additional 2 million smokers quit.

PMID: 2930095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):640-7.

Training physicians in counseling about smoking cessation. A randomized trial of 
the "Quit for Life" program.

Cummings SR(1), Coates TJ, Richard RJ, Hansen B, Zahnd EG, VanderMartin R, Duncan
C, Gerbert B, Martin A, Stein MJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test whether physicians who receive a continuing education
program ("Quit for Life") about how to counsel smokers to quit would counsel
smokers more effectively and have higher rates of long-term smoking cessation
among their patients who smoke.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with blinded assessment of principal outcomes.
SETTING: Four health maintenance organization medical centers in northern
California.
SUBJECTS: Eighty-one internists assigned by blinded randomization to receive
training (40) or serve as controls (41). Consecutive samples of smokers visiting 
each physician (mean, 25.6 patients per experimental and 25.2 per control
physician).
INTERVENTIONS: Internists received 3 hours of training about how to help smokers 
quit. Physicians and their office staff also were given self-help booklets to
distribute free to smokers and were urged to use a system of stickers on charts
to remind physicians to counsel smokers about quitting.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: On the basis of telephone interviews with patients
after visiting the physician, we determined that internists who attended the Quit
for Life program discussed smoking with more patients who smoked, spent more time
counseling them about smoking, helped more patients set dates to quit smoking,
gave out more self-help booklets, and made more follow-up appointments to discuss
smoking than did internists in the control group. One year later, the rate of
biochemically confirmed, long-term (greater than or equal to 9 months) abstinence
from smoking was 1% higher among all patients of trained internists than among
patients of controls (95% CI, -0.1% to +2.3%), and 2.2% (+0.2% to +4.3%) higher
among the patients who most wanted to quit smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: This continuing education program substantially changed the way
physicians counseled smokers. As a result, a few more patients who wanted to quit
smoking achieved long-term abstinence.

PMID: 2930094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):593-8.

The effect of caffeine on exercise tolerance and left ventricular function in
patients with coronary artery disease.

Hirsch AT(1), Gervino EV, Nakao S, Come PC, Silverman KJ, Grossman W.

Author information: 
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether acute oral caffeine ingestion by patients
with coronary artery disease results in decreased treadmill exercise performance 
or deterioration of echocardiographic measures of systolic or diastolic left
ventricular function.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
SETTING: Referral-based cardiovascular exercise laboratory at an urban teaching
hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirteen volunteers with clinically stable coronary artery disease who 
had exercise tests after a 2-week caffeine-free washout period. Patients
continued treatment with standard antianginal medications during the study
period.
INTERVENTIONS: Maximal exercise treadmill testing and exercise echocardiography
were done at baseline, after acute ingestion of a placebo beverage (97%
caffeine-free coffee), or after drinking an identical beverage containing 250 mg 
of caffeine sodium benzoate.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Acute ingestion of caffeine produced a serum level
of 4.50 +/- 0.16 micrograms/mL, but had no effect on resting supine heart rate,
blood pressure, left ventricular fractional shortening, posterior left
ventricular wall thinning or peak rates of increase in left ventricular diastolic
dimension. Despite a small increase in peak systolic blood pressure during
exercise (baseline, 153 +/- 8; placebo, 154 +/- 8; caffeine, 161 +/- 7 mm Hg; P
less than 0.05), exercise duration, time to onset of angina, and time to 0.1 mV
ST depression did not differ after ingestion of placebo or caffeine.
Rate-pressure product at onset of angina and onset of 0.1 mV of ST depression
were also unchanged. In response to exercise, echocardiographic measures of left 
ventricular systolic and diastolic function were unchanged after caffeine
compared with placebo ingestion.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that patients with exercise-induced ischemia who 
are receiving appropriate antianginal therapy tolerate the caffeine-equivalent of
three cups of coffee without detrimental effect on intensity of ischemia,
myocardial function, or exercise duration.

PMID: 2930092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):587-92.

Chronic aortic insufficiency: factors associated with progression to aortic valve
replacement.

Siemienczuk D(1), Greenberg B, Morris C, Massie B, Wilson RA, Topic N, Bristow
JD, Cheitlin M.

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the initial measurement of clinical
variables in patients with chronic stable aortic insufficiency is helpful in
identifying patients at risk for earlier progression to aortic valve replacement.
DESIGN: Prospective analysis of a cohort of patients for a median follow-up time 
of 44 months (range, 8 to 57).
SETTING: Referral-based cardiology clinics at two university hospitals and their 
affiliated Veterans Administration medical centers.
PATIENTS: Cohort of 50 asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic patients with
chronic aortic insufficiency and left ventricular enlargement. Patients had
preserved left ventricular ejection fraction at rest and no evidence of coronary 
artery disease or significant noncardiac illness.
INTERVENTION: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Baseline evaluation included a history and
physical examination, chest roentgenogram. M-mode echocardiogram, treadmill test,
and radionuclide angiogram done at rest and during supine bicycle exercise. Ten
patients progressed to surgery because of the onset of limiting symptoms or
objective evidence of left ventricular dysfunction, or both; the overall rate was
4% +/- 3% per year. The Breslow and Mantel-Cox statistics were used to compute
survival (surgery-free) dichotomized by prognostic variables. The progression to 
surgery was earlier in patients with left ventricular end-diastolic volume
indices of 150 cc/m2 or more, end-systolic volume indices of 60 cc/m2 or more, a 
left ventricular ejection fraction at maximal exercise of less than 0.50, or an
end-systolic wall stress of 86 dynes/cm2 or more.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients at higher and lower risk for early progression to aortic
valve replacement can be identified through the measurement of left ventricular
size and function. This information can be used to decide the frequency and
intensity of follow-up evaluation in these patients.

PMID: 2930091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):606-11.

Dapsone, trimethoprim, and sulfamethoxazole plasma levels during treatment of
Pneumocystis pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS). Evidence of drug interactions.

Lee BL(1), Medina I, Benowitz NL, Jacob P 3rd, Wofsy CB, Mills J 5th.

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco General Hospital Medical Center, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the interaction between dapsone and trimethoprim in
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Measurement of drug levels as part of an open study of dapsone alone and 
randomized, double-blind comparison of trimethoprim-dapsone with
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in treating Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in
patients with AIDS.
SETTING: County hospital and AIDS clinic.
PATIENTS: Eighteen patients treated with dapsone alone, 30 with
trimethoprim-dapsone, and 30 with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
INTERVENTION: Dapsone, 100 mg/d; trimethoprim, 20 mg/kg body weight per day, and 
sulfamethoxazole, 100 mg/kg.d; administered for 21 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Concentrations of dapsone were 40% higher in
patients treated with trimethoprim-dapsone than in those treated with dapsone
alone (2.1 compared with 1.5 micrograms/mL; P less than 0.05).
Trimethoprimdapsone-treated patients had fewer treatment failures but more side
effects and treatment terminations due to toxicity than those treated with
dapsone alone. The concentration of trimethoprim was 48.4% higher in patients
treated with trimethoprim-dapsone than in those treated with
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, (18.4 compared with 12.4 micrograms/mL; P less
than 0.05). Discontinuation of therapy due to toxicity was commoner in the
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole group (57% compared with 30%).
CONCLUSIONS: A bidirectional drug interaction exists between dapsone and
trimethoprim, resulting in higher concentrations of each in the presence of the
other.

PMID: 2784648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):617-21.

Performance characteristics of serologic tests for human immunodeficiency virus
type 1 (HIV-1) antibody among Minnesota blood donors. Public health and clinical 
implications.

MacDonald KL(1), Jackson JB, Bowman RJ, Polesky HF, Rhame FS, Balfour HH Jr,
Osterholm MT.

Author information: 
(1)Minnesota Department of Health.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):95.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate performance characteristics of sequential enzyme
immunoassay (EIA) and Western blot human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)
antibody testing in a low-risk population.
DESIGN: Three-year prospective study of a selected sample from a community-based 
population.
SETTING: Two blood collection facilities in Minnesota.
POPULATION: Minnesota blood donors.
RESULTS: During the study period, 630,190 units of blood (donations) from an
estimated 290,110 Minnesota-resident donors were screened for HIV-1 antibody.
Seventeen Minnesota-resident donors were identified as positive for HIV-1
antibody. Sixteen donors were available for follow-up HIV-1 culture: all were
culture positive. The other donor, who was not available for follow-up culture,
was likely infected with HIV-1 based on a history of high-risk behavior and
positive serologic findings for hepatitis B surface antigen. Using 95% binomial
confidence intervals, performance characteristics for sequential EIA and Western 
blot HIV-1 antibody serology were as follows: false-positive rate by number of
donations, 0% to 0.0006%; specificity by number of donations, 99.9994% to 100%;
predictive value of a positive test, 81% to 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: In this low-risk population, the false-positive rate of serologic
tests for HIV-1 antibody, using HIV-1 culture as the definitive standard for
infection status, was extremely low and test specificity was extremely high.

PMID: 2648922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 15;110(8):612-6.

Pharyngitis in adults: the presence and coexistence of viruses and bacterial
organisms.

Huovinen P(1), Lahtonen R, Ziegler T, Meurman O, Hakkarainen K, Miettinen A,
Arstila P, Eskola J, Saikku P.

Author information: 
(1)University of Turku, Turku, Finland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the presence and coexistence of viruses and
bacterial organisms causing pharyngitis in adults.
DESIGN: Open study using diagnostic methods, including rapid antigen-detection
techniques, to test for the presence of viruses of the respiratory tract, as well
as Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Chlamydia trachomatis, the Chlamydia species strain
TWAR, and beta-hemolytic streptococci.
SETTING: Open health care.
PATIENTS: One hundred six consecutive adult patients, 15 to 65 years old, whose
chief complaint was sore throat.
MAIN RESULTS: Of the 106 patients, beta-hemolytic streptococci were found in only
24 patients (5 patients with group A streptococci, 13 with group C, 5 with group 
G, and 1 with group F); M. pneumoniae was found in 10 patients, the Chlamydia
species strain TWAR in 9 patients, and viruses in 27 patients. Two microbes were 
simultaneously isolated in 3 patients, and no microbial findings were detected in
33 patients.
CONCLUSION: Because 19 patients were infected with the Chlamydia species strain
TWAR and M. pneumoniae, and 24 patients were infected with beta-hemolytic
streptococci, the diagnostic procedures and therapies for adult patients with
pharyngitis need to be reconsidered. The results of our study also confirm
earlier suggestions that the Chlamydia species strain TWAR alone is a causative
agent for pharyngitis in adults.

PMID: 2494921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


632. BMJ. 1989 Apr 15;298(6679):998-1002.

Concentrations of high density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and total 
cholesterol in ischaemic heart disease.

Pocock SJ(1), Shaper AG, Phillips AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and General Practice, Royal Free Hospital
School of Medicine, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 May 27;298(6685):1450.
    BMJ. 1989 May 6;298(6682):1249.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the roles of serum concentrations of total cholesterol, high
density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides in predicting major ischaemic 
heart disease.
DESIGN: Men recruited for the British regional heart study followed up for a mean
of 7.5 years.
SETTING: General practices in 24 British towns.
PATIENTS: 7735 Middle aged men.
END POINT: Predictive value of serum concentrations of lipids.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At initial screening serum concentrations of total
cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides were
determined from non-fasting blood samples. Altogether 443 major ischaemic heart
disease events (fatal and non-fatal) occurred during the study. Men in the
highest fifth of the distribution of total cholesterol concentration (greater
than or equal to 7.2 mmol/l) had 3.5 times the risk of ischaemic heart disease
than did men in the lowest fifth (less than 5.5 mmol/l) after adjustment for high
density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration and other risk factors. Men in the 
lowest fifth of high density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration (less than
0.93 mmol/l) had 2.0 times the risk of men in the highest fifth (greater than or 
equal to 1.33 mmol/l) after adjustment for total cholesterol concentration and
other risk factors. Men in the highest fifth of triglyceride concentration
(greater than or equal to 2.8 mmol/l) had only 1.3 times the risk of those in the
lowest fifth (less than 1.08 mmol/l) after adjustment for total cholesterol
concentration and other risk factors; additional adjustment for high density
lipoprotein cholesterol concentration made the association with ischaemic heart
disease disappear.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum concentration of total cholesterol is the most important
single blood lipid risk factor for ischaemic heart disease in men. High density
lipoprotein cholesterol concentration is less important, and triglyceride
concentrations do not have predictive importance once other risk factors have
been taken into account.

PMCID: PMC1836343
PMID: 2499392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. BMJ. 1989 Apr 15;298(6679):995-7.

The accident at Chernobyl and outcome of pregnancy in Finland.

Harjulehto T(1), Aro T, Rita H, Rytömaa T, Saxén L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 May 20;298(6684):1384.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the outcome of pregnancy in Finnish women after the
accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant on 26 April 1986.
DESIGN: Geographic and temporal cohort study.
SETTING: Finland divided into three zones according to amount of radioactive
fallout.
SUBJECTS: All children who were exposed to radiation during their fetal
development. Children born before any effects of the accident could be
postulated--that is, between 1 January 1984 and 30 June 1986--served as controls.
INTERVENTIONS: Children were divided into three temporal groups: controls,
children who were expected to be born in August to December 1986, and children
who were expected to be born in February to December 1987. They were also
divided, separately, into three groups according to the three geographic zones.
END POINT: Incidence of congenital malformations, preterm births, and perinatal
deaths.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the
incidence of malformations or perinatal deaths among the three temporal and three
geographic groups. A significant increase in preterm births occurred among
children who were exposed to radiation during the first trimester whose mothers
lived in zones 2 and 3, where the external dose rate and estimated surface
activity of caesium-137 were highest.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that the amount of radioactive fallout that
Finnish people were exposed to after the accident at Chernobyl was not high
enough to cause fetal damage in children born at term. The higher incidence of
premature births among malformed children in the most heavily polluted areas,
however, remains unexplained.

PMCID: PMC1836339
PMID: 2499391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. BMJ. 1989 Apr 15;298(6679):991-4.

Emotionalism after stroke.

House A(1), Dennis M, Molyneux A, Warlow C, Hawton K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of emotionalism after stroke, to assess its
relation with other mood disorders, and to identify clinical variables with which
it is associated.
DESIGN: Descriptive study of a cohort of patients consecutively entered on a
community stroke register.
SETTING: Community based research project.
PATIENTS: A total of 128 patients who had suffered first ever stroke.
INTERVENTIONS AND END POINTS: Patients were interviewed by a psychiatrist at 1,
6, and 12 months after stroke. Mood state was assessed by standardised
semistructured interview (present state examination) and self report (Beck
depression inventory). Intellectual impairment was assessed by mini mental state 
examination and Frenchay aphasia screening test. In addition, stroke lesions were
localised by computed tomography.
MAIN RESULTS: Emotionalism was reported by 13 of 89 patients (15%) at one month, 
25 of 119 (21%) at six months, and 12 of 112 (11%) at 12 months after stroke.
Patients with emotionalism had higher scores on both measures of mood disorder
(at 6 months: mean Beck score 10.5 v 6.4; present state examination score 7.2 v
5.1) and more diagnosable psychiatric disorder (at 6 months: 40% v 14%; odds
ratio 4.2, 95% confidence interval 1.5 to 11.9). Almost all episodes were
provoked by clearly identified and appropriate emotional experiences. Patients
with emotionalism also had more intellectual impairment and larger lesions on
computed tomography. Lesions in the left frontal and temporal regions were
particularly associated with emotionalism: at 6 months 8 of 14 patients (57%)
with such lesions had emotionalism compared with 10 of 52 (19%) of those with
lesions elsewhere (odds ratio 5.6, 95% confidence interval 1.4 to 22).
CONCLUSIONS: Emotionalism is common after stroke. It is neither emotionally
meaningless and inappropriate, nor is it found mostly in patients with bilateral 
brain damage. Emotionalism is associated with symptoms of a more general mood
disturbance and is found especially in patients with left frontal and temporal
lesions.

PMCID: PMC1836312
PMID: 2499390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. BMJ. 1989 Apr 15;298(6679):1012-4.

Scottish attitudes to blood donation and AIDS.

MacAskill SG(1), Hastings GB, McNeill RE, Gillon J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marketing, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether the issue of AIDS has influenced the observed decline
in blood donation in Scotland.
DESIGN: Two methods: a quantitative survey using personal interviews based on a
questionnaire and a qualitative survey based on group discussions.
SETTING: Interviews based on the questionnaire were conducted in the respondents'
homes. The group discussions were held in the homes of professional market
research interviewers.
PARTICIPANTS: For the quantitative survey a representative sample of 976 Scottish
adults was selected by multistage sampling. In the qualitative survey 16 groups
of five to eight respondents assigned according to donating experience and
sociodemographic criteria took part.
MAIN RESULTS: AIDS was not mentioned as a discouraging factor in donation, and
off putting aspects identified before AIDS became a public issue remained
salient--for example, fear of needles. Many (75%) thought it unlikely that
donation entailed a risk of developing AIDS. Nevertheless, respondents were
reluctant to consider the AIDS issue personally. Being asked to do so, as in the 
routine screening of donors, aroused fears and resentment.
CONCLUSIONS: The issue of AIDS, including fear of infection, has not directly
influenced the declining numbers of donors, but the unpleasant associations of
AIDS have had an indirect effect, particularly in undermining the emotional
benefits of giving blood. For example, the screening process, which requires
potential donors to consider their personal risk from AIDS, had had the effect of
discouraging donors in general. Redressing the balance is difficult as screening 
must be universally applied. Rather than minimising the issue of AIDS, publicity 
needs urgently to reassert the positive benefits of and rewards from giving
blood.

PMCID: PMC1836335
PMID: 2499370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Orv Hetil. 1989 Apr 9;130(15):765-72.

[The incidence of endocarditis caused by a prosthetic valve and its risk
factors].

[Article in Hungarian]

Lengyel M, Jánosi A, Arvay A.

To study the incidence and risk factors of prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) we
followed 99.5% of 912 patients who had valve replacement from January 1, 1981
through December 31, 1985, for 1 to 6 (mean 3) years. PVE occurred in 27 patients
(2.96% or 0.98% per patient-year). The incidence of PVE in the aortic position
(3.9%) was significantly higher than in the mitral position (1.5%): p less than
0.25. PVE developed in 19 out of 329 patients with bioprostheses (5.8%) and in 8 
out of 583 patients with mechanical valves (1.4%): p less than 0.005. Actuarially
at 5 years follow-up 90.7% of the bioprosthetic group and 98.4% of the mechanical
valve group was free of PVE (p less than 0.01). Bioprosthetic valve replacement
in infective endocarditis further increased the risk of PVE compared to valve
replacement by mechanical prostheses.IN CONCLUSION: in order of importance
antecedent endocarditis, bioprostheses, male sex and aortic position are risk
factors in the development of PVE. In patients requiring operation for infective 
endocarditis, mechanical valves are recommended. As the outcome of PVE is still
very grave, authors stress the importance of prophylaxis, early diagnosis and
timely operation.

PMID: 2652031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):442-8.

The nonvalue of retrospective peer comparison feedback in containing hospital
antibiotic costs.

Parrino TA.

Author information: 
Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, Boston University School of
Medicine, Massachusetts.

Antibiotics have accounted for an increasing percentage of hospital pharmacy
charges. Recently, an inexpensive method, automated peer comparison feedback, has
been developed to influence physician use of resources. The documented success of
several implementations of this strategy led to a one-year experiment to
influence hospital antibiotic utilization. Each month, attending physicians in
the top 50 percentiles for expenditure were notified of their status in relation 
to their peers. Expenditures by feedback and control groups were compared to
determine whether feedback would result in reduced expenditures by individuals,
or whether there would be a generalized reduction in expenditure by the entire
group (Hawthorne effect). Over the year, no significant reduction in expenditure 
was noted. However, some important utilization patterns were identified. Although
more surgical patients received antibiotics than did nonsurgical patients,
surgical antibiotic costs were less. Surgical therapy was typically of shorter
duration and involved the use of less expensive antibiotics. Multiple-antibiotic 
prescribing was less frequent on surgical services. Thirty percent of attending
physicians were responsible for 80 percent of all antibiotic costs; 60 percent of
those in this top group were members of the medical cohort.IN CONCLUSION: (1) As 
implemented in the current study, automated peer comparison feedback was not an
effective method for reducing antibiotic utilization; (2) Differences in
prescribing patterns between services may dictate the best strategies for
improving antibiotic utilization; (3) More attention should be directed toward
the relatively small "reference group" of physicians responsible for most
hospital antibiotic prescribing.

PMID: 2929630  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):427-32.

Transient hypertension after two phenylpropanolamine diet aids and the effects of
caffeine: a placebo-controlled follow-up study.

Lake CR(1), Zaloga G, Bray J, Rosenberg D, Chernow B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
F. Edward Hebert School of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: Reports of severe adverse reactions following
the ingestion of single (75 mg) or double doses of the sympathomimetic drug
phenylpropanolamine (PPA), with and without caffeine, prompted us to undertake a 
study of the effects of five drug preparations (75 mg PPA, 150 mg PPA, 75 mg PPA 
plus 400 mg caffeine, 400 mg caffeine, and placebo) in 16 resting, normotensive
subjects. The study was of a double-blind, randomized, crossover design. Each
subject consented to take the five drug preparations on different study days,
which were separated by at least 48 hours.
RESULTS: Compared with blood pressure (BP) values obtained after placebo
ingestion, significant BP increases occurred over several hours following 150 mg 
PPA and after 75 mg PPA plus 400 mg caffeine. Significant BP increases after
ingestion of 75 mg PPA and after 400 mg caffeine were less frequent. The mean
peak BP following 150 mg PPA was 173 +/- 9/103 +/- 4 mm Hg, compared with 148 +/-
4/97 +/- 3 mm Hg after the other three active preparations; after placebo, peak
BP reached 137 +/- 8/85 +/- 5 mm Hg.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that 150 mg PPA (the amount in two diet aids) 
substantially elevates BP. Our findings may explain some of the recent case
reports of nontraumatic intracranial hemorrhage in young, healthy persons
ingesting PPA at recommended or minimally greater dosages. We suggest physicians 
inform patients who are likely consumers of PPA (i.e., those with allergies,
those with eating disorders, overweight persons, women during the postpartum
period) and patients at risk for stroke (i.e., the elderly and hypertensive
patients) of the risks of taking more than the recommended amounts of PPA and of 
combining caffeine with PPA.

PMID: 2929629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):413-6.

Normal left ventricular performance documented by Doppler echocardiography in
patients with long-standing hypocalcemia.

Vered I(1), Vered Z, Perez JE, Jaffe AS, Whyte MP.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Research Unit, Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis,
Missouri 63131.

INTRODUCTION: Several reports suggest significantly reduced left ventricular
performance in subjects with chronic hypocalcemia. We prospectively investigated 
eight patients, aged 13 to 31 years, with long-standing hypocalcemia due to
idiopathic hypoparathyroidism or pseudohypoparathyroidism by echocardiography.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six subjects had symptomatic hypocalcemia manifested as
recurrent tetany (four), seizures (four), mental retardation (three), behavior
disorder (one), and skeletal abnormalities (four); three subjects were untreated 
when studied. None had cardiovascular symptoms. Each patient underwent clinical, 
biochemical, and cardiac studies, including Doppler, two-dimensional, and M-mode 
echocardiography, on the same day.
RESULTS: In serum, both total and ionized calcium concentrations were reduced and
averaged 7.2 mg/dl (range: 5.3 to 8.5 mg/dl; normal: 9.0 to 10.3 mg/dl) and 3.6
mg/dl (range: 3.0 to 3.9 mg/dl; normal: 4.5 to 5.3 mg/dl), respectively.
Electrocardiograms revealed prolonged QTc intervals in six patients. Also noted
were prominent U waves (five), T-wave abnormalities (four), and right-axis
deviation (one). Resting echocardiography, however, demonstrated normal left
ventricular function in all subjects. All M-mode measurements were normal.
Two-dimensional-derived left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes
were 87.1 +/- 20.1 ml and 30.2 +/- 9.7 ml (mean +/- SD), respectively. Left
ventricular ejection fraction was 65 percent (61.2 to 74.7 percent).
Doppler-derived cardiac output and cardiac index averaged 5.1 liters/minute (2.9 
to 6.7 liters/minute) and 3.0 liters/minute/m2 (1.7 to 4.3 liters/minute/m2),
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our prospective study of eight subjects with functional
hypoparathyroidism demonstrated that, despite electrocardiographic abnormalities,
long-standing hypocalcemia was not associated with left ventricular dysfunction.

PMID: 2929628  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):407-12.

Aortic insufficiency and mitral regurgitation in patients with systemic lupus
erythematosus and the antiphospholipid syndrome.

Chartash EK(1), Lans DM, Paget SA, Qamar T, Lockshin MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, New York 10021.

PURPOSE, PATIENTS, AND METHODS: Heart disease has not been well characterized in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and the antiphospholipid
syndrome. During a prospective study of cerebrovascular disease in autoimmune
disease and SLE, 11 lupus patients were identified with an antiphospholipid
syndrome characterized by significant cardiac valvular disease in addition to
cerebral infarction, deep vein thromboses, and thrombocytopenia. Patients were
reviewed for criteria for systemic lupus and underwent echocardiographic studies 
and measurements of anticardiolipin antibodies, VDRL, and the lupus
anticoagulant.
RESULTS: Eight of the 11 patients had aortic insufficiency, two of whom had
associated mitral regurgitation. Three patients had mitral regurgitation alone.
Microscopic analysis of a surgically excised aortic valve indicated typical
Libman-Sacks verrucous endocarditis. Infective endocarditis was ruled out in all 
patients.
CONCLUSION: This report expands previous descriptions of antiphospholipid
syndromes by describing a subset of lupus patients with significant aortic and
mitral valvulitis in addition to circulating antiphospholipid antibodies,
thrombocytopenia, and recurrent thromboses.

PMID: 2929627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):400-6.

Long-term follow-up of aggressively treated idiopathic rapidly progressive
glomerulonephritis.

Bruns FJ(1), Adler S, Fraley DS, Segel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pennsylvania.

PURPOSE: We wanted to examine the long-term effects of aggressively treating
idiopathic rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN), with a particular focus
on clinically characterizing the patient population, assessing the short- and
long-term effects of therapy on renal function, and determining complications of 
the therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-three consecutive patients with RPGN were treated
and followed from one to 11 years. On renal biopsy, 13 had immune complexes,
eight had no immune complexes, and two had antiglomerular basement membrane
deposits. All had greater than 25 percent crescents and 19 of 23 had greater than
50 percent crescents. Every patient responded on a short-term basis to either
large-dose pulse methylprednisolone or plasma exchange, with reduction of the
mean plasma creatinine level from 6.5 +/- 2.0 mg/dl to 2.9 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (p less 
than 0.001). Each patient received oral prednisone and all but one received
cyclophosphamide.
RESULTS: Three died of non-renal causes. Fifty percent of the remaining 20
patients maintained stable renal function for at least two years. Four of nine
patients followed-up for longer than two years had a relapse, but all responded
again to therapy. No characteristic clinical symptoms predicting relapse were
found, although nearly all had hematuria and proteinuria. Complications of
therapy were frequent and may have contributed to death in two patients.
CONCLUSION: Thus, long remissions are seen in most patients with RPGN treated
aggressively.

PMID: 2929626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):379-84.

Bloodstream infections in the elderly.

Meyers BR(1), Sherman E, Mendelson MH, Velasquez G, Srulevitch-Chin E, Hubbard M,
Hirschman SZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital, City University of New York, New
York 10029-6574.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 May;88(5):554-5.

PURPOSE: Bacteremia in the elderly is associated with a different clinical course
and a higher mortality rate when compared with that in younger age groups. In
order to examine these issues in the aged, we reviewed the clinical course and
factors involved in the outcome of 100 episodes of bloodstream infections in
patients over 65 years of age.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The hospital records of all patients over 65 years of age
at The Mount Sinai Hospital with a positive blood culture result during the
period October 1984 to October 1986 were reviewed. Place of residence before
hospital admission, site of acquisition of infection, source of bloodstream
infection, and microorganism were analyzed. Antimicrobial therapy was defined as 
appropriate if initial therapy included one agent to which the isolate was
sensitive, or inappropriate if the isolate was resistant. The following factors
affecting survival were analyzed: age, sex, underlying diseases, clinical
parameters on admission, white blood cell count, mental status, source of
infection, microorganism isolated, antibiotic toxicity, and appropriate versus
inappropriate antibiotic therapy.
RESULTS: Most patients were female (63 percent), were febrile (90 percent), had
an altered mental status (52 percent), and had a neutrophilic response (61
percent). Eighty-three percent of patients were admitted from the community
(home), 14 percent were from long-term-care facilities, and 3 percent were
transferred from other hospitals. Fifty percent of infections were nosocomial,
and 44 percent were community (home and nursing home)-acquired. Gram-negative
organisms accounted for 60 percent of isolates, with Escherichia coli (22
percent) and Klebsiella species (11 percent) predominating; 30 percent were
gram-positive organisms, with Staphylococcus aureus (13 percent) and
Streptococcus faecalis (10 percent) the most common. The overall survival was 60 
percent; the survival rate was 65.8 percent for community-acquired (home)
bacteremia, 75 percent for nursing home-acquired bacteremia, and 52.8 percent for
hospital-acquired bacteremia. Survival for gram-negative isolates was 65 percent,
versus 51.7 percent for gram-positive isolates. Survival was greatest in patients
whose source of bacteremia was either the genitourinary tract (70 percent) or an 
intravascular device (78 percent) and poorest in patients with lower respiratory 
tract source (42 percent); all three patients with endocarditis died. Increased
survival was observed in patients treated with appropriate antimicrobial agents
regardless of age, source of infection, or bloodstream isolates.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2929625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):376-8.

High-density lipoprotein cholesterol is reduced in patients with sarcoidosis.

Kindman LA(1), Gilbert HS, Almenoff JS, Ginsberg H, Fagerstrom R, Teirstein AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York.

PURPOSE: Sarcoidosis is a disease in which the proliferation of
monocyte-macrophage-derived cells is observed. In other diseases characterized by
expansion of the monocyte-macrophage system, such as Gaucher's disease and
myeloid metaplasia, abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism have been
demonstrated. To determine whether similar abnormalities in lipoprotein
cholesterol concentrations could be identified in patients with sarcoidosis, we
studied total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and
high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol as well as triglyceride levels in 52
patients with biopsy-proven sarcoidosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients had no other medical disorders and were not being 
treated with corticosteroids or antimalarial agents. Blood samples were collected
by venipuncture after an overnight fast. Plasma total cholesterol and
triglyceride levels were measured using enzymatic techniques. Lipoprotein
cholesterol was quantified by lipoprotein fractionation. HDL cholesterol was
measured as cholesterol remaining in the supernatant after precipitation of LDL
and very-low-density lipoprotein from whole plasma by the heparin-maganese
chloride method. Computation was used to determine the level of LDL cholesterol.
RESULTS: We found significantly reduced levels of total cholesterol (183.9 +/-
27.6 versus 194.3 +/- 16.5 mg/dl, mean +/- SD, p = 0.021) and HDL cholesterol
(41.2 +/- 13.0 versus 51.9 +/- 6.1 mg/dl, p = 0.0001) in sarcoid patients versus 
an age-, sex-, and race-matched reference group. Differences were not observed in
triglyceride or LDL cholesterol levels (p greater than 0.05).
CONCLUSION: These findings are similar to those observed in the
myeloproliferative diseases, Gaucher's disease, and rheumatoid arthritis and
suggest a functional role for monocytes-macrophages in the regulation of serum
lipoprotein cholesterol levels.

PMID: 2929624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):385-90.

Familial occurrence of impaired interleukin-2 activity and increased peripheral
blood B cells actively secreting immunoglobulins in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Sakane T(1), Murakawa Y, Suzuki N, Ueda Y, Tsuchida T, Takada S, Yamauchi Y,
Tsunematsu T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Shimane Medical University, Japan.

PURPOSE: We tested the hypothesis that some abnormalities of immune functions are
genetically controlled in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We used a phytohemagglutinin-induced interleukin-2 (IL-2)
activity assay and a spontaneous plaque-forming cell assay to evaluate T-cell and
B-cell function, respectively, in 34 clinically healthy family members of six SLE
probands.
RESULTS: Impaired IL-2 activity was found in 15 of the 29 consanguineous
relatives. There was no relation between the household relatives and the
nonhousehold relatives; none of the five nonconsanguineous household persons had 
abnormal results. Results for the B-cell assay were abnormal in 22 of the 29
consanguineous relatives. The B-cell abnormalities were more commonly observed in
the consanguineous household relatives; four of the five nonconsanguineous
household relatives also had abnormal assay results.
CONCLUSION: The findings indicate that the impaired IL-2 activity in relatives
appears to strongly correlate with a genetic relationship. Although the evidence 
favors a genetic basis for the B-cell abnormalities, environmental effects may
also contribute to the familial occurrence of these abnormalities.

PMID: 2784626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):417-20.

Underestimation of cardiac output by thermodilution in patients with tricuspid
regurgitation.

Cigarroa RG(1), Lange RA, Williams RH, Bedotto JB, Hillis LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Cardiovascular Division), University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas 75235.

INTRODUCTION: This study was done to assess the accuracy and reliability of the
thermodilution technique in measuring cardiac output in patients with tricuspid
regurgitation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In 30 subjects (17 men, 13 women, aged 50 +/- 14 [mean +/- 
SD] years), cardiac output was measured in close temporal proximity by
thermodilution as well as Fick or indocyanine green dye, after which the presence
and severity of tricuspid regurgitation were assessed by contrast right
ventriculography or pulsed Doppler echocardiography.
RESULTS: In the 13 patients without tricuspid regurgitation, there was excellent 
agreement between the results of thermodilution and Fick or indocyanine green dye
cardiac output determinations (4.95 +/- 1.19 liters/minute by thermodilution,
4.90 +/- 1.11 liters/minute by Fick or indocyanine green dye; NS). In contrast,
in the 17 patients with tricuspid regurgitation, the results of thermodilution
were consistently lower than those of Fick or indocyanine green dye (4.22 +/-
1.45 liters/minute by thermodilution, 4.99 +/- 1.67 liters/minute by Fick or
indocyanine green dye; p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Thus, the thermodilution technique of measuring cardiac output is
inaccurate in patients with tricuspid regurgitation, yielding results that are
consistently lower than the actual outputs.

PMID: 2648822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):370-5.

Isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly: results of a statewide survey of
clinical practice in New Jersey.

Breckenridge MB(1), Kostis JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, University of 
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, New Brunswick 08903.

PURPOSE AND SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The advisability of treating isolated systolic 
hypertension (ISH) in the elderly is a matter of debate. We therefore surveyed
current clinical practices for ISH among members of the New Jersey Academy of
Family Physicians and the American College of Physicians-New Jersey Chapter (n = 
1,514). To our knowledge, no such survey focusing on ISH had previously been
reported. Two rounds of questionnaires were mailed three weeks apart in April and
May of 1985, followed by a phone survey of non-respondents in June and July. A
third mailing was performed where appropriate.RESULTS: The response rate was 87
percent. For ISH in patients aged 60 and older, 89 percent of the 1,318
respondents reported using drug therapy. A diuretic was chosen as the first-line 
drug by 67.5 percent of respondents. The most common second-line drug choices
were a beta blocker (28 percent), a central alpha agonist (19 percent), and a
diuretic (18.5 percent). The patient's age entered strongly into decisions on
drug use. Although 55 percent of respondents would use drug therapy at a systolic
blood pressure of 160 mm Hg or less for persons aged 60 to 69, only 35 percent
would do so for persons aged 70 to 79, and 26 percent for persons aged 80 and
older. For all patient age groups, older physicians were more likely to consider 
drug therapy than were younger physicians. Among specialty groups, general
practitioners were the most likely to consider drug therapy and cardiologists the
least likely to do so for all patient age groups. Family physicians and general
internists appeared to have very similar practice patterns regarding definition
and treatment of ISH.
CONCLUSION: The overall message of the survey results is that the majority of
physicians questioned use drug therapy, usually a diuretic or a beta blocker, for
some patients with ISH. However, no widely accepted standard practice on the
definition and management of ISH in persons aged 60 and older was observed.

PMID: 2564735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):421-6.

Comparison of enalapril and atenolol in mild to moderate hypertension.

Herrick AL(1), Waller PC, Berkin KE, Pringle SD, Callender JS, Robertson MP,
Findlay JG, Murray GD, Reid JL, Lorimer AR, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Glasgow Blood Pressure Clinic, University of Glasgow, Scotland.

PURPOSE: Short-term therapy with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
for hypertension is effective and well tolerated, and compared with beta
blockers, may cause fewer adverse reactions. Furthermore, enalapril has been
observed to have a greater effect on systolic blood pressure than beta blockers. 
We therefore decided to compare the ACE inhibitor enalapril and the beta blocker 
atenolol as monotherapy in a double-blind study of patients with mild to moderate
hypertension.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: After a four-week placebo run-in period, 162 patients were 
allocated randomly to receive atenolol (50 to 100 mg daily) or enalapril (20 to
40 mg daily) for 12 weeks. To assess the influence of these drugs on quality of
life, a series of psychologic tests was performed, and a subset of patients also 
underwent treadmill exercise and pulmonary function tests.
RESULTS: In 147 patients who completed the study, enalapril reduced supine blood 
pressure by 19/12 mm Hg, compared with 9/7 mm Hg for atenolol (p less than
0.001/p less than 0.005). The modest blood pressure response to atenolol was not 
due to poor compliance. A target blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or less was
achieved by 35 percent of enalapril-treated atenolol (p less than 0.01). The
frequency and severity of adverse effects with the two drugs were similar, and
few important differences emerged from the quality-of-life assessments.
CONCLUSION: At the doses used, enalapril induced a greater short-term blood
pressure response than atenolol; long-term studies of its safety and efficacy are
required.

PMID: 2539017  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Am J Med. 1989 Apr;86(4):391-9.

Cerebrovascular disease and antiphospholipid antibodies in systemic lupus
erythematosus, lupus-like disease, and the primary antiphospholipid syndrome.

Asherson RA(1), Khamashta MA, Gil A, Vazquez JJ, Chan O, Baguley E, Hughes GR.

Author information: 
(1)Lupus Arthritis Research Unit, Rayne Institute, London, England.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):597.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: Antiphospholipid antibodies, lupus
anticoagulant antibodies to cardiolipin, and a false-positive result on testing
for syphilis have been linked to thrombotic vascular occlusions, particularly in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or lupus-like disease, i.e.,
patients not fulfilling four American Rheumatism Association criteria for the
classification of SLE. The clinical and serologic features of 35 patients with
cerebrovascular disease (strokes/transient ischemic attacks) who demonstrated
antibodies to phospholipids are presented. Complete histories were obtained from 
all 35 patients, and all underwent routine physical examinations, radiography,
electrocardiography, computed tomographic brain scanning, and immunologic
studies. Psychometric tests were performed in nine patients.
RESULTS: The strokes were often multiple and were followed by multi-infarct
dementia in nine patients. Of particular interest were 10 patients in whom the
presence of antiphospholipid antibodies was the major and often the sole
immunologic disturbance present. Several of these patients were antinuclear
antibody-negative, and the antinuclear antibodies, when present, were usually of 
a low titer (1:40 to 1:160). These patients conform to a group classified as
having a primary antiphospholipid syndrome.
CONCLUSION: Antiphospholipid antibodies are strongly associated with
cerebrovascular occlusions in patients with SLE as well as in those with
lupus-like disease and the primary antiphospholipid syndrome. All patients with
any of these conditions who present with vascular events should be screened for
these antibodies, as their occurrence may have a bearing on future therapy.

PMID: 2494884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Anasth Intensivther Notfallmed. 1989 Apr;24(2):94-9.

[Postoperative, opiate-induced respiratory depression is not dependent on
arousal].

[Article in German]

Tolksdorf W(1), Bremer H, Tokic B.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie, Med. Fak. der RWTH, Aachen.

Comment in
    Anasth Intensivther Notfallmed. 1990 Aug;25(4):297-300.

INTRODUCTION: Respiratory depression after intravenous anesthesia is supposed to 
be related to vigilance. This hypothesis could not yet be tested because of the
lack of methods measuring continuously important parameters of respiration
without altering the patient's vigilance. Pulse Oximetry offers this possibility.
The following study was performed to investigate the effects of the
Benzodiazepine Antagonist Flumazenil (Anexate) on parameters of vigilance and
respiration after Midazolam/Fentanyl anesthesia.
METHODS: 40 healthy patients aged 18-65 years who were to undergo arthroscopy
were randomly assigned to Flumazenil (Group F) or no Flumazenil = Control (Group 
C). All patients received 7.5-10 mg Midazolam, 0.3-0.6 Fentanyl, 4-6 mg
Vecuronium, were intubated and ventilated with 8 ml/kg BW VT x 12/min - N2O/O2 = 
2:1. At the end of operation Group F received 0.3-0.5 mg Flumazenil. When
adequate spontaneous ventilation was restored the patients were extubated and
brought to a single bed room where they were monitored and observed without being
disturbed, except at the arrival time (T1), 15 min (T2) and 30 min (T3) when
blood pressure was measured and the pain score was asked. The following
parameters were registered: Transcutaneous Oxygen Saturation (SAT) and Heart Rate
(HR) continuously, Sedation (every minute) and Reactions to acoustic or verbal
stimuli in the case of hypoxemia. The two groups were compared with respect to
the number and severity of hypoxic events/15 min, the mean degree of sedation (6 
point scale) and the number of adequate reactions to the acoustic alarm resp.
instruction: "Take a deep breath!"
STATISTICS: Wilcoxon Test, Chi-Square test (p less than or equal to 0.05) is
significant).
RESULTS: The groups were comparable with respect to their anthropometric data,
dosages of Midazolam and Fentanyl, and perioperative blood pressures. Parameters 
of vigilance: Group F was less sedated than Group C (p = 0.052) and reacted
better to the verbal instruction to take a deep breath in the case of hypoxia (p 
less than or equal to 0.05). Parameters of respiration: Hypoxic states occurred
more frequently in group F (p = 0.098) and lasted longer. The severeness was
significantly more pronounced in group F (p less than or equal to 0.05). There
were no complications and the patients acceptance of the anesthetic procedure was
high.
CONCLUSIONS: The hypothesis that postoperative respiratory depression is related 
to the degree of vigilance cannot be accepted. In contrast there is a strong
evidence that under special conditions patients can be in a relatively high
degree of vigilance and do not breathe with subsequent severe hypoxemia. The
possible u

PMID: 2567127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 1;110(7):526-31.

Importance of gonadal steroids to bone mass in men with hyperprolactinemic
hypogonadism.

Greenspan SL(1), Oppenheim DS, Klibanski A.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of alteration of gonadal steroids on
bone mass in men with hyperprolactinemic hypogonadism.
DESIGN: Prospective survey of patients for a median period of 33 months.
SETTING: Neuroendocrine clinical center of a referral-based university medical
center.
INTERVENTIONS: Reversal of hyperprolactinemia by bromocriptine therapy,
transsphenoidal surgery, or radiation therapy, alone or in combination.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 20 male patients with prolactin-secreting
pituitary tumors.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In patients who had a reversal of
hyperprolactinemia and a restoration of gonadal function, a significant increase 
in bone density of the radial shaft was noted (mean +/- SE, 0.77 +/- 0.03 to 0.84
+/- 0.03 g/cm2; P less than or equal to 0.05). These patients also had a minimal 
change in the density of vertebral bone (109 +/- 9 to 115 +/- 10 mg of potassium 
phosphate, dibasic/cm3). Patients who remained hypogonadal despite the reversal
of hyperprolactinemia had no change in radial (0.76 +/- 0.03 to 0.76 +/- 0.04
g/cm2) or vertebral bone density (105 +/- 10 to 103 +/- 9 mg of potassium
phosphate, dibasic/cm3). There was a positive correlation between the change in
testosterone level and the change in radial (r = 0.67, P less than or equal to
0.003) or vertebral bone density (r = 0.70, P less than or equal to 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: The reversal of hypogonadism, independent of the prolactin
concentration, is associated with an improvement in bone mass. Our findings
emphasize the importance of gonadal steroids in maintaining skeletal integrity in
men.

PMID: 2923387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 1;110(7):515-20.

High-level penicillin resistance among isolates of enterococci. Implications for 
treatment of enterococcal infections.

Bush LM(1), Calmon J, Cherney CL, Wendeler M, Pitsakis P, Poupard J, Levison ME, 
Johnson CC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent and clinical significance of high-level 
penicillin-resistant Enterococcus faecium at our institution.
DESIGN: Surveillance of clinical enterococcal isolates, in-vitro susceptibility
and timed survival studies, and determination of antibiotic efficacy in an
experimental model of enterococcal endocarditis.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For a 6-month period, 14% of enterococcal isolates
(30 of 212) were identified as E. faecium. One third of the isolates were highly 
resistant to penicillin G (minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC], greater than
or equal to 200 micrograms/mL) but did not produce beta-lactamase. The findings
from in-vitro survival studies showed that this high-level resistance resulted in
the loss of bactericidal activity normally observed when an aminoglycoside
antibiotic agent is combined with penicillin. An experimental rat model of
endocarditis provided in-vivo data that confirmed our in-vitro observations.
After the rats received therapy for 72 hours, penicillin G either alone or in
combination with gentamicin did not significantly decrease the numbers of
enterococci in vegetations on heart valves compared with untreated controls (P = 
0.62 and P = 0.58, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Enterococcus faecium accounts for a notable proportion of clinical
enterococcal isolates. Many strains from patients at our institution, as well as 
from patients at other institutions throughout the country, are highly resistant 
to penicillin. Because high-level penicillin resistance has important therapeutic
implications, periodic surveillance and MIC testing of significant enterococcal
isolates, especially E. faecium, are suggested.

PMID: 2923386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 1;110(7):510-4.

Multipolar electrocoagulation in the treatment of peptic ulcers with nonbleeding 
visible vessels. A prospective, controlled trial.

Laine L.

Author information: 
University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety of treatment with endoscopic
multipolar electrocoagulation in patients who have ulcers with nonbleeding
visible vessels.
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, sham-controlled trial; patients were followed
until their discharge from the hospital.
SETTING: Urban, nonreferral county hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 75 patients who had a bloody nasogastric aspirate
sample, melena, or hematochezia; unstable vital signs, a transfusion of at least 
two units of blood in 12 hours, or a drop in the hematocrit of at least 0.06 in
12 hours; and endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with a nonbleeding visible vessel.
INTERVENTION: Sham or real multipolar electrocoagulation at the time of
diagnostic endoscopy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the group
receiving multipolar electrocoagulation showed marked improvement in the
following variables; rebleeding (18% compared with 41%, P less than 0.05;
difference, 23%; 95% CI, 3% to 43%); need for emergency surgery (8% compared with
30%, P less than 0.05; difference, 22%; CI, 5% to 39%); mean number of hospital
days (4.3 +/- 0.4 compared with 6.2 +/- 0.7, P less than 0.05; difference, 1.9;
CI, 0.4 to 3.4); and cost of hospitalization ($3790 +/- $410 compared with $5730 
+/- $650, P less than 0.05; difference, $1940; CI, $400 to $3480). The mean
transfusion requirement in the treatment group was 1.6 +/- 0.3 as compared with
3.0 +/- 0.6 units in the control group (P = 0.13; difference, 1.4; CI, 0 to 2.8).
The overall mortality was extremely low: Only 1 (1%) of 75 patients died.
Bleeding was induced in 7 (18%) of the 38 patients treated with
electrocoagulation, and 1 patient required urgent surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic treatment with multipolar electrocoagulation is
beneficial in patients who present with major upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage
and are found to have an ulcer with a nonbleeding visible vessel.

PMID: 2647014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Apr 1;110(7):505-9.

Adverse hemodynamic and clinical effects of encainide in severe chronic heart
failure.

Gottlieb SS(1), Kukin ML, Yushak M, Medina N, Packer M.

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, City University of New York, New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the hemodynamic effects of the antiarrhythmic drug, 
encainide, in patients with severe chronic heart failure.
DESIGN: Unblinded, before-after study.
SETTING: Referral center for patients with heart failure.
PATIENTS: Thirty patients with severe chronic heart failure and a left
ventricular ejection fraction less than 40%.
INTERVENTIONS: Invasive hemodynamic measurements were done (using a
balloon-tipped thermodilution catheter) before and for 3 hours after a single
oral dose of 50 mg of encainide.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Ninety to one hundred and twenty minutes after its
administration, encainide produced a significant deterioration in cardiac
performance, as reflected by a fall in cardiac index from 2.3 to 1.8 L/min.m2
body surface (mean change 0.5 +/- 0.1; P less than 0.001), a fall in stroke work 
index from 26 to 18 g.m/m2 (mean change 8 +/- 2; P less than 0.001), and an
increase in left ventricular filling pressure from 19 to 22 mm Hg (mean change 3 
+/- 2; P less than 0.05). These deleterious hemodynamic effects were accompanied 
by worsening symptoms of heart failure in 8 of the 30 patients. Serum levels of
encainide and its metabolites, O-desmethylencainide and
3-methoxy-O-desmethylencainide, were within the therapeutic range in most
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Encainide can cause adverse hemodynamic and clinical effects in
patients with severe chronic heart failure.

PMID: 2493762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. BMJ. 1989 Apr 1;298(6677):875-6.

Cardiac catheterisation by the Judkins technique as an outpatient procedure.

Oldroyd KG(1), Phadke KV, Phillips R, Carson PH, Clarke M, Davis JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, City General Hospital, Stoke on Trent.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Apr 29;298(6681):1182.
    BMJ. 1989 May 13;298(6683):1310.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and cost benefit of left heart catheterisation by
a modified Judkins technique performed as a day patient procedure.
DESIGN: Review study of case notes of consecutive patients examined by the
procedure over three years (January 1984 to December 1986).
SETTING: Outpatient referrals in a regional cardiac centre within a district
general hospital.
PATIENTS: Nine hundred patients aged 18-76 (mean 54) selected at a previous
clinic as suitable for the procedure.
MAIN RESULTS: Eight hundred and fifty patients (94.4%) were discharged home on
the day of the procedure. Forty others (4.4%) could not be discharged owing to
complications during or just after the procedure. Of these patients, two died
(0.2%), six suffered a myocardial infarction (0.7%), and two had major vascular
complications. The remaining 30 patients were admitted because of chest pain
without infarction (10 cases), minor vascular incidents (six), haemorrhage at the
puncture site (five), arrhythmia (four), pulmonary oedema (three), and contrast
reaction (two). Ten patients were admitted for either urgent coronary artery
bypass grafting or social reasons.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac catheterisation is safe as an outpatient procedure in most
cases. Beds are spared and roughly 35,000 pounds is saved for every 500
procedures performed.

PMCID: PMC1836115
PMID: 2497831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. BMJ. 1989 Apr 1;298(6677):870-4.

Is an information booklet for patients leaving hospital helpful and useful?

Sandler DA(1), Mitchell JR, Fellows A, Garner ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a booklet given to patients being discharged from
hospital giving details of their admission and treatment increased their
knowledge and recall when reviewed in outpatient clinics.
DESIGN: Patients alternately allocated to receive a booklet or to serve as
controls. Assessment by a questionnaire at first attendance at outpatient clinic 
after discharge. Data were collected over nine months.
SETTING: One general medical and cardiological ward in a large teaching hospital 
and associated outpatient clinics.
PATIENTS: One hundred and thirty one patients discharged taking at least one drug
and scheduled to return to clinic within 12 weeks. Patients stratified by age and
by the number of weeks between discharge and outpatient appointment.
INTERVENTION: A booklet was given to 65 patients at discharge from the ward; 66
patients served as controls.
MAIN RESULTS: Of the patients who received the booklet, 56 (86%) knew the names
of their drugs, 62 (95%) the frequency of the dose, and 55 (85%) the reasons for 
taking each drug. The numbers in the control group were 31 (47%), 38 (58%), and
28 (42%) respectively. These differences were highly significant (p less than
0.001). Twenty six (40%) who received the booklet brought all their drugs to
clinic compared with 12 (18%) control patients. Appreciably more of the first
group of patients than control patients knew the reason they had been in
hospital, and more of the first group indicated that they would take the correct 
action when their prescribed drugs ran out. Most general practitioners thought
that the booklet was a good idea, that it was helpful, and that it was better
than the existing interim discharge letter.
CONCLUSIONS: Giving patients an information booklet at discharge from hospital
appreciably increased the accuracy and thoroughness of their recall of important 
medical details concerning their illness and its treatment. The booklet was shown
to be feasible, helpful in the outpatient clinic, and preferred by most general
practitioners.

PMCID: PMC1836154
PMID: 2497830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. BMJ. 1989 Apr 1;298(6677):859-62.

Self referral to an accident and emergency department for another opinion.

Jones CS(1), McGowan A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Accident and Emergency Medicine, Pinderfields General Hospital,
Wakefield.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Apr 29;298(6681):1182-3.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether patients referring themselves to an accident and 
emergency department for another opinion after consulting their general
practitioner present with serious illness, show any risk factors for being
admitted, or are more likely to be patients of particular practitioners.
DESIGN: Six month prospective survey.
SETTING: District general hospital's accident and emergency department, receiving
42,000 new patients a year.
PATIENTS: 180 Patients identified as attending for another opinion having already
consulted a general practitioner.
INTERVENTIONS: Classified as admission, referral to specialist clinic, follow up 
in accident and emergency department, or referral back to general practitioner.
END POINT: Admission, with an analysis of admitted patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: General outcome, diagnostic category, age, time of
attendance, time since seen by general practitioner, and name of general
practitioner were recorded. Forty seven patients were admitted, 99 were
discharged back to the general practitioner (62 without a letter), and two died. 
Patients were most likely to be admitted if they attended within 24 hours after
seeing a general practitioner, were aged under 5, or presented with respiratory
or gastrointestinal complaints. Some general practitioners were overrepresented.
CONCLUSIONS: Important disorders present in this way, and therefore these
patients should be seen by a doctor. Information about these attendances could be
useful to general practitioners in reviewing their performance.

PMCID: PMC1836111
PMID: 2497824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. BMJ. 1989 Apr 1;298(6677):856-9.

Untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria in girls: II--Effect of
phenoxymethylpenicillin and erythromycin given for intercurrent infections.

Hansson S(1), Jodal U, Lincoln K, Svanborg-Edén C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Gothenburg University, East Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of phenoxymethylpenicillin and erythromycin
on urinary isolates from patients with untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of subgroup of patients from cohort followed up till 
the end of 1986.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic for children with urinary tract infections.
PATIENTS: 51 Girls aged under 15 with untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria.
INTERVENTIONS: Before 1982 intercurrent infections (mostly tonsillitis or otitis)
were treated with phenoxymethylpenicillin; after 1982 erythromycin treatment was 
preferred.
END POINTS: Change of bacterial strain in urinary tract and symptomatic
recurrences of disease.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bacteria identified by serotype and
electrophoretic type and compared before and after antibiotic treatment.
Bacteriuria eradicated and replaced by new strains in most patients treated with 
phenoxymethylpenicillin, leading to symptomatic recurrences in about 15%.
Conversely, patients given erythromycin rarely showed change in bacteriuria and
none suffered symptomatic recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: In girls with untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria the use of
phenoxymethylpenicillin for intercurrent infections may lead to a change of
urinary bacteria and leave them at substantial risk of acute pyelonephritis. With
erythromycin this risk is small (2/20 courses in this series).

PMCID: PMC1836159
PMID: 2497823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. BMJ. 1989 Apr 1;298(6677):853-5.

Untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria in girls: I--Stability of urinary isolates.

Hansson S(1), Caugant D, Jodal U, Svanborg-Edén C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Gothenburg University, East Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency of spontaneous changes of bacterial strains in
patients with untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of samples from all patients with renal scarring
and random sample of patients with normal kidneys.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic for children with urinary tract infections.
PATIENTS: 54 Girls aged 3.3-15.5 years with untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria
caused by Escherichia coli.
INTERVENTION: None.
END POINT: Change in bacterial strain.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Serotyping and electrophoretic analysis of sequential
bacterial isolates, representing 151 patient years of untreated asymptomatic
bacteriuria. A total of 24 changes of strain were identified. Eleven were related
to medical interference such as treatment of other infections with antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: Spontaneous changes of strain were uncommon, one change in 11.6
patient years, and thus are not a characteristic feature of the course of
asymptomatic bacteriuria.

PMCID: PMC1836156
PMID: 2497822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Br J Addict. 1989 Apr;84(4):395-404.

Superior outcome of females over males after brief treatment for the reduction of
heavy drinking.

Sanchez-Craig M, Leigh G, Spivak K, Lei H.

Problem drinkers (52 males, 38 females) recruited through advertisements were
randomly assigned to one of three treatments:GUIDELINES: three sessions of advice
using a pamphlet outlining basic steps for achieving abstinence or moderate
drinking. Manual: three sessions of instruction in the use of a 'self-help'
manual presenting a step-by-step approach for attaining abstinence or moderate
drinking. Therapist: six or more sessions of instruction in the methods outlined 
in the 'self-help' manual. At 3, 6 and 12 months follow-up, no significant
differences were found among the groups in reduction of heavy drinking days (i.e.
days when consumption exceeded four drinks, each containing 13.6 g/ethanol).
Overall, the number of heavy days were reduced from an average of 43 at intake,
to 20 over the 1-year follow-up period. Females, however, had significantly
greater reductions than males (75% versus 35%). Three months after treatment the 
rate of successful moderate drinkers was significantly higher for females than
males in the GUIDELINES (60% versus 33%) and the Manual condition (63% versus
18%), but not in the Therapist condition (25% versus 35%). At 1-year follow-up,
females were more successful than males in all conditions. Mean changes in GGT
and MCV levels lended support to the change in drinking status (from heavy
drinker at intake to moderate drinker at follow-up), based on clients'
self-reports.

PMID: 2720192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1989 Apr;3(2):155-61.

A comparison of sotalol and procainamide in symptomatic ventricular tachycardia.

Jordaens LJ(1), Colardyn F, Clement DL.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

The effects of oral sotalol were compared with 1000 and 1500 mg of procainamide
in 23 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia. The predictive value of an
induction study after procainamide was assessed. The mean age of the study group 
was 62 +/- 12 years, and the mean ejection fraction was 32 +/- 16%. The cycle
length (CL) of the induced tachycardia, the coupling interval (CI) of the first
extrastimulus (in ms), and the number of noninducible (NI) patients are given in 
the table below. (table; see text) One patient developed torsades during the
loading period of sotalol and is included in the number requiring cardioversion
(DC). Important proarrhythmic effects (spontaneous occurrence of tachycardia)
were seen twice after procainamide. Induction suppression by procainamide
predicted success with sotalol (p = 0.0013).CONCLUSION: Ventricular tachycardia
seems to be less often inducible after oral sotalol than after procainamide. The 
success of procainamide during programmed electrical stimulation predicts the
same for sotalol. If ventricular tachycardia remains inducible after oral
sotalol, it is faster than after procainamide but slower than the baseline
tachycardia. Both drugs slightly prolong refractoriness.

PMID: 2487531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Clin Nutr. 1989 Apr;8(2):61-7.

Are branched chain amino-acids beneficial for nutrition of severe surgical
patients with sepsis?

Freysz M(1), Caillard B, Desgres J, Godbille C, Dupont G, Rombi H, Wilkening M.

Author information: 
(1)Département d'Anesthésie-Réanimation - Hôpital Général 3, Rue du Faubourg Raines 
- 21033 Dijon Cédex France.

This study investigated in severe sepsis the metabolic effects of two amino acid 
diets, including the same protein (0.3 gN/kg/day) and caloric intake (2g/kg/day
glucose) but with different amino acid composition, 24% branched chain
amino-acids (B.C.A.A.) for diet A (8 cases), 41% B.C.A.A. for diet B (11 cases). 
The two groups were obtained by randomisation at the operative day (D0) and were 
observed six days (D1-D6). During study, total nitrogen using a Kjeldhal method
was measured. At D0 and D6, albumin, total hemolytic complement, transferrin,
cholesterol, ammonaemia, insulin and amino acid pattern were studied in blood and
skin tests were performed. The data were analysed by Mann-Whitney test.RESULTS:
1) The cumulative nitrogen balances of the six days are not significantly
different, but at day 6 in diet B, patients started to be in an anabolic state
(+3.7 gN) and in diet A catabolism persisted (-12 gN) (p<0.02). 2) Plasma
B.C.A.A. are significantly higher and aromatic acids significantly lower in diet 
B. In order, Fischer ratio is also significantly different between the two
regimens. All the other measured parameters are not significantly different. In
this study, the B.C.A.A. enriched diet seems to be beneficial in surgical
patients with severe sepsis.

PMID: 16837267  [PubMed]


662. Diabetes Res. 1989 Apr;10(4):165-9.

Effect of human proinsulin on blood glucose control and metabolic instability in 
type 1 diabetes mellitus.

Bock E(1), Quabbe HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Klinikum Steglitz, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The effect of human biosynthetic proinsulin (PRO) on blood glucose (BG) control
and glucose excursions was studied in a nonrandomized design in eight patients
with unstable type 1 diabetes mellitus and compared with that of human NPH
insulin. Both preparations were injected subcutaneously twice daily for three
days each in combination with small doses of regular insulin. All patients were
kept in metabolic control during PRO treatment. Mean BG (mean of three days, 18
samples per day) was lower during PRO (mean +/- SE: 14.4 +/- 4.0 versus 11.4 +/- 
3.0 mmol/l, p = 0.079). Inspection of individual data showed that four patients
had similar BG profiles and mean daily BG concentrations with both preparations
(12.3 +/- 1.1 vs 12.1 +/- 1.0 mmol/l), while the other four had significantly
lower values during PRO (16.5 +/- 1.0 vs 10.1 +/- 1.1 mmol/l, p = 0.003).
Metabolic instability (MAGE values) was similar during NPH and PRO (7.5 +/- 0.5
versus 7.0 +/- 0.5 mmol/l, H = 0.011, p = 0.88) when calculated for the entire
group of patients. However, all patients with similar BG profiles during NPH and 
PRO treatment had smaller daily BG excursions on PRO (8.1 +/- 0.8 versus 6.6 +/- 
0.6 mmol/l, p = 0.104, Wilcoxon test). The counterregulatory hormones, growth
hormone and cortisol were not different between the two treatment periods or
between the two groups. Plasma PRO concentrations (as determined through
crossreaction in a C-peptide assay) did not correlate with the PRO dose (rxy =
0.508, p = 0.20), but correlated negatively with BG (rxy = 0.841, p =
0.009).CONCLUSIONS: (1) Patients with type 1 mellitus can be kept in metabolic
control during treatment with human PRO. (2) The dose of PRO considered
equipotent to NPH insulin must be determined for each patient individually in
order to avoid hypoglycemic attacks. (3) Although there was a tendency towards
improved metabolic stability during PRO in some patients, this requires further
investigations.

PMID: 2692943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-3):1782-7.

[Preoperative radiotherapy of bone and soft tissue sarcomas].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto S(1), Kawaguchi N, Amino K, Manabe J, Yamashita T, Kaneta K, Furuya K, 
Isobe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Orthopedic Surgery, Cancer Institute-Hospital.

The role of preoperative radiotherapy was evaluated in 16 cases with soft tissue 
sarcoma and 13 cases with osteosarcoma. Nine osteosarcoma cases underwent
radiotherapy of whole lesion, and 4 cases had radiotherapy only of the surgically
incurable portion. There were no local recurrences in M0 cases, but skin necrosis
occurred in the whole radiation group. As for the soft tissue sarcomas, local
recurrence was not seen in virgin cases, but two cases which had received
previous treatment showed local recurrence. There were no cases with severe side 
effects.CONCLUSION: 1. Partial radiotherapy was effective as preoperative
treatment for osteosarcoma. 2. preoperative radiotherapy is better than
postoperative radiotherapy from many standpoints.

PMID: 2730073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-2):1506-10.

[Immunologic examination of Juzentaiho-to (TJ-48) in postoperative gastric
cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Kurokawa T(1), Tamakuma S, Imai J, Yamamoto T, Taguchi J.

Author information: 
(1)1st Dept. of Surgery, National Defense Medical College.

We earlier reported the clinical effects of TJ-48 on side-effects of anti-tumor
agents. In this report an immunological examination was conducted on
administration of TJ-48 for postoperative gastric cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS:
Blast formation of mouse lymphocyte to which patient serum was added. TNF
activity, LAK activity and 2-5AS activity before and after administration of
TJ-48 were measured in 19 cases of gastric cancer.
RESULTS: Blast formation of mouse lymphocytes after administration showed a
tendency to increase more than before. TNF activities tended to decrease more
after administration than before. 2-5AS activities indicated a tendency to
decrease more after administration than before. Little difference was manifest
between LAK activities before and after administration.
CONCLUSION: The action of non-specific immunosuppressive factor was suggested to 
be lowered after administration of TJ-48 for postoperative gastric cancer.

PMID: 2730049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-2):1323-8.

[Clinical evaluation of A 1 protocol in advanced neuroblastoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwafuchi M(1), Ohsawa Y, Hirota M, Matsuda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Pediatric Surgery, Niigata University Hospital.

For the purpose of studying clinical evaluation of A 1 protocol for advanced
neuroblastoma, chemotherapy with vincristine, cyclophosphamide, THP-adriamycin
and cisplatin was performed in 8 pediatric patients with advanced neuroblastoma
undergoing second look operation (4) or delayed primary operation (4). Tumor
volume measured on CT, histological finding of tumor obtained at operation, blood
and urinary tumor marker level were studied.RESULTS: 1) The chemotherapy is
supposed to be effective for round cell type neuroblastoma. On the other hand, it
is ineffective for composite type ganglioneuroblastoma. 2) More than 3 courses of
A 1 protocol are necessary to yield a good effect. 3) There is no relationship
between the effect of the chemotherapy and the prognosis.

PMID: 2730045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-1):993-9.

[Multidisciplinary treatment of head and neck cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Inuyama Y(1), Kohno N, Fujii M, Tanaka J, Takaoka T, Hosoda H, Kawaura M, Toji M,
Tanaka K, Kawatani A, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Otolaryngology, School of Medicine, Keio University.

This presentation deals with multidisciplinary treatment of head and neck cancer,
especially focusing on maxillary sinus carcinoma (MSC) and nasopharyngeal
carcinoma (NPC). Since 1982, a new multidisciplinary treatment incorporating
neo-adjuvant chemotherapy has been introduced in the treatment of MSC. The
Neo-adjuvant chemotherapy includes cisplatin (CDDP) + peplomycin (PEP),
adriamycin (ADR) analogs + CDDP + PEP, and CDDP +5-FU. Two courses of
chemotherapy were given intraarterially with the interval of 2 weeks. Routinely, 
radiotherapy of 40 Gy by Linac was given to the primary tumor site, concomitantly
combined with 5-FU intraarterial injections only during the first 10 days, 2
weeks after the end of chemotherapy. Additional treatment was performed according
to the extent of the residual tumors. The 5-year survival rate for the 28
patients treated with this therapy was 55%. The 5-year survival rate by T
classification was 100% for T2, 76% for T3 and 0% for T4 cases. The preservation 
rate of maxillo-facial structures and functions was 82%. Concerning NPC,
neo-adjuvant chemotherapy included CDDP + PEP, ADR + CDDP + PEP and ADR +
cyclophosphamide + PEP. Two courses of chemotherapy were performed, followed by
radiotherapy of 60 Gy by Linac. Then intracavitary 60Co therapy was performed,
followed by adjuvant chemoimmunotherapy. The 5-year survival rate for 21 patients
treated with this therapy was 44%.CONCLUSIONS: (1) The 5-year survival rate was
better for patients with MSC who were treated with multidisciplinary treatment
incorporating intraarterial neo-adjuvant chemotherapy than that for patients who 
received other treatment so far. Furthermore, the highest preservation rate of
maxillo-facial structures and functions was achieved in the neo-adjuvant
chemotherapy group. However, survival rates for T4 cases were very poor, so
another approach should be taken. (2) The 5-year survival rate was also better
for patients with NPC who were given multidisciplinary treatment than for
patients who received other treatment to date. However, there was no decrease of 
distant metastases, which we aimed initially, despite the introduction of
neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.

PMID: 2730039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1989 Apr;71(4):580-93.

Immunolocalization of metalloproteinases and their inhibitor in the rabbit growth
plate.

Brown CC(1), Hembry RM, Reynolds JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Physiology Department, Strangeways Research Laboratory, Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

The synthesis and distribution of three metalloproteinases, collagenase,
stromelysin, and gelatinase, and of the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase
were examined in the distal femoral growth plate, the secondary center of
ossification, and the perichondral ossification groove of Ranvier in newborn to
six-week-old rabbits. Specific antisera to each of the enzymes and to the tissue 
inhibitor of metalloproteinase were used to identify their distribution in the
extracellular matrix of the growth plate and to determine the associated tissues 
and cells that are responsible for their synthesis. Immunolocalization using
tissue that was cultured in the presence of monensin to augment accumulation of
intracellular antigen revealed that the growth-plate chondrocyte is responsible
for the synthesis of the metalloproteinases and the tissue inhibitor of
metalloproteinase, and that there is a unique pattern of synthesis in each zone. 
Chondrocytes of the resting and proximal proliferative zones were shown to
synthesize and secrete all of the metalloproteinases and the tissue inhibitor of 
metalloproteinase. Synthesis of collagenase also was demonstrated in the
remainder of the proliferative zone and in the most distal cells of the
hypertrophic zone. The presence of collagenase in the distal cells suggests their
involvement in vascular invasion. By culturing tissues in the presence of
antibodies, we were able to demonstrate collagenase and the tissue inhibitor of
metalloproteinase throughout the growth-plate matrix. Staining of the
extracellular matrix, implying active collagenase, was also found in the matrix
of the proliferative and hypertrophic zones, suggesting that degradation of
tissue may occur at a distance from the cells that synthesize the enzyme.
Simultaneous localization with two different antibodies demonstrated that
growth-plate chondrocytes are capable of synthesizing collagenase and the tissue 
inhibitor of metalloproteinase, both independently of one another and
coordinately. Stromelysin was found to be synthesized in all zones, implying that
it plays an important role in degradation. Monocyte-conditioned media stimulates 
synthesis of collagenase in growth-plate cells, principally through the action of
interleukin-1. All chondrocytes throughout the growth plate, including
hypertrophic cells, can be stimulated to produce collagenase. These changes in
metalloproteinase and in the tissue inhibitory of metalloproteinase in the growth
plate are crucial to remodelling of the matrix during development, and the
appearance of metalloproteinases and the tissue inhibitory of metalloproteinase
in the secondary ossification center and groove of Ranvier indicates that changes
at these sites are similar to remodeling in the growth plate.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: 
The life cycle of the chondrocyte in the growth plate is central to the process
of endochondral ossification, bone growth, and development. Our new data on the
zonal synthesis of metalloproteinase and of th

PMID: 2539384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. J Clin Invest. 1989 Apr;83(4):1168-73.

Influence of body fat distribution on free fatty acid metabolism in obesity.

Jensen MD(1), Haymond MW, Rizza RA, Cryer PE, Miles JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

In order to determine whether differences in body fat distribution result in
specific abnormalities of free fatty acid (FFA) metabolism, palmitate turnover, a
measure of systemic adipose tissue lipolysis, was measured in 10 women with upper
body obesity, 9 women with lower body obesity, and 8 nonobese women under
overnight postabsorptive (basal), epinephrine stimulated and insulin suppressed
conditions.RESULTS: Upper body obese women had greater (P less than 0.005) basal 
palmitate turnover than lower body obese or nonobese women (2.8 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.1
+/- 0.2 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.2 mumol.kg lean body mass (LBM)-1.min-1, respectively), but
a reduced (P less than 0.05) net lipolytic response to epinephrine (59 +/- 7 vs. 
79 +/- 5 vs. 81 +/- 7 mumol palmitate/kg LBM, respectively). Both types of
obesity were associated with impaired suppression of FFA turnover in response to 
euglycemic hyperinsulinemia compared to nonobese women (P less than 0.005). These
specific differences in FFA metabolism may reflect adipocyte heterogeneity, which
may in turn affect the metabolic aberrations associated with different types of
obesity. These findings emphasize the need to characterize obese subjects before 
studies.

PMCID: PMC303803
PMID: 2649512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Neurosci Res. 1989 Apr;22(4):397-407.

Glucose transport in primary cultured neurons.

Heidenrich KA(1), Gilmore PR, Garvey WT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093.

In this study, we have examined glucose uptake and its regulation by insulin in
primary cultured neurons. Glucose transport was assessed by measuring the initial
rate of uptake of 3H-2-deoxyglucose, a glucose analog that is transported and
phosphorylated but not further metabolized. The uptake of 2-deoxyglucose was
saturable; measurements of the intracellular concentration of 2-deoxyglucose and 
2-deoxyglucose-6-phosphate revealed that hexokinase activity rather than membrane
transport is the rate-limiting step for glucose uptake. Insulin had no effect on 
2-deoxyglucose uptake at low (0.2 mM) or high (20 mM) concentrations of
substrate. The order of potency of other hexoses to competitively inhibit the
accumulation of 2-deoxyglucose was D-glucose (0.2 mM) = D-mannose (0.2 mM)
greater than 3-0-methylglucose (9 mM) greater than D-galactose (90 mM).
Cytochalasin B was a potent inhibitor of 2-deoxyglucose uptake (IC50 = 500 nM)
and phloretin was more potent than ploridzin in inhibiting uptake. The structure 
of glucose transporters was examined by photoaffinity labeling using
3H-cytochalasin B and by immunologic detection using antibodies raised against
the human erythrocyte transporter. 3H-cytochalasin B labeled two proteins of 55
kDa and 43 kDa and the antibody recognized primarily a 43 kDa protein. The
subcellular distribution of glucose transporters, estimated by measuring the
number of specific cytochalasin B binding sites in subfractions of neuronal
homogenates, showed 3.62 pmol/mg protein in the 11,000g pellet and 1.34 pmol/mg
protein in the 200,000g pellet.IN CONCLUSION: 1) Neuronal glucose transport is
not acutely regulated by insulin. 2) The kinetics of 2-deoxyglucose uptake into
neurons are determined largely by hexokinase activity rather than membrane
transport. 3) The apparent molecular weight of neuronal glucose transporters is
similar to transporters in other tissues. 4) The number of glucose transporters
per milligram of protein is relatively low in neurons compared to other tissues.

PMID: 2760941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Masui. 1989 Apr;38(4):457-64.

[Effects of carbon dioxide (hypocapnia and hypercapnia) on tissue blood flow and 
oxygenation of liver, kidney and skeletal muscle in the dog].

[Article in Japanese]

Okazaki K, Okutsu Y, Fukunaga A.

We investigated the effects of carbon dioxide on the splanchnic visceral organs
(liver and kidney) as well as skeletal muscle in the anesthetized dog. Thirty two
adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital, intubated and
ventilated mechanically with 100% oxygen to maintain normocapnia. After
laparotomy, miniature Clark-type polarographic oxygen electrodes were placed on
the surfaces of liver, kidney and rectus femoris muscle. Electromagnetic blood
flow (BF) probes were also applied to hepatic artery (HA), portal vein (PV), left
renal artery (RA) and left femoral artery (FA). After a stable normocapnic
ventilation, the hypocapnia was produced by increasing respiratory rate, and the 
hypercapnia was induced by adding the exogenous carbon dioxide.RESULTS:
Hyperventilation resulted in a significant decrease in HABF, PVBF, liver surface 
PO2 and kidney surface PO2 in parallel with the decreased PaCO2, but these
parameters increased dose dependently when the carbon dioxide was added to the
inspired gas (hypercapnic hyperventilation). On the contrary, FABF and skeletal
muscle surface PO2 increased by hypocapnia and decreased during hypercapnia.
Neither PaCO2 or cardiac output showed any significant change during the entire
experiment. Arterial PCO2 appears to exert significant effects on both splanchnic
and skeletal muscle perfusion as well as corresponding changes in tissue
oxygenations. It is possible that injudicious and prolonged hypocapnic
hyperventilation may seriously compromise splanchnic organ perfusion and
oxygenation.

PMID: 2498552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1989 Apr-Jun;84(2):227-35.

[Natural infection of wild rodents by Schistosoma mansoni].

[Article in Portuguese]

Silva TM(1), Andrade ZA.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Ana Nery INAMPS, Bahia, Brasil.

In Planalto, a small locality in the interior of the Bahia state, Brazil, 47% of 
sylvatic rodents were found to be naturally infected with Schistosoma mansoni,
whereas the prevalence of the infection in the inhabitants of the area was 3.26%.
The rodents (Nectomys) live near the houses, in contact with water, passing
viable schistosome eggs in the stools. Worm burden is variable amongst such
rodents. Periovular granulomas are small, especially in liver and intestines, and
hepatic fibrosis is mild or absent, with no morphological evidence of portal
hypertension being noted. Miracidia isolated from the eggs recovered from
Nectomys readly infected laboratory-raised Bahia strain of Biomphalaria glabrata.
Cercariae then obtained infected Swiss mice in a similar way as the human strains
of S. mansoni kept in laboratory. Also, Swiss mice left in contact with water
collections in Planalto were easily infected, which proved the transmissibility
potential of the area.IN CONCLUSION: sylvatic rodents found in the area of
Planalto tolerate well S. mansoni infection, eliminate viable eggs in the stools,
are usually infected with a strain probably of human origin and therefore may
play a role in maintaining parasite cycle in the area.

PMID: 2517565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Ou Daigaku Shigakushi. 1989 Apr;16(1):31-41.

[Long-term observation of two post-treatment cases with an impacted maxillary
central incisor corrected by orthodontic treatment].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogino H, Gouke S, Ikejiri Y, Himuro T, Nishigushi S, Yamaguchi T.

This article describes long-term observation of two post treatment cases with an 
impacted maxillary central incisor corrected by orthodontic treatment. [Case 1]
Age at first examination: 11 years and 1 month. Chief complaint: Retarded
eruption of a maxillary right incisor and crowding of teeth.DIAGNOSIS: No
skeletal problems were identified. Crown axis inclination of the impacted tooth
showed 104.0 degrees. Root axis inclination showed 87.0 degrees. Treatment plan: 
[formula; see text] extraction, traction of the maxillary right incisor, edgewise
method. Treatment time: 4 years and 3 months. [Case 2] Age at first examination: 
8 years and 8 months. Chief complaint: Retarded eruption of a maxillary left
incisor.
DIAGNOSIS: No skeletal problems were identified. Crown axis inclination of the
impacted tooth showed 112.0 degrees. Root axis inclination showed 88.0 degrees.
Treatment plan: Traction of maxillary left incisor, edgewise method. Treatment
time: 5 years and 6 months. The findings were as follows; 1) When the active
treatment was finished, no pulp necrosis nor any resorption of root or alveolar
bone was found in the two cases. 2) At present, the crown axis inclination is
restored to normal in both cases. 3) The impacted maxillary central incisors were
treated to the normal position in the dental archs, and the condition and the
tissues around are good. The foregoing results, we are sure, can be an important 
traction of the impacted maxillary central incisor.

PMID: 2640792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Regul Pept. 1989 Apr;25(1):131-46.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide: a sensory and motor neurotransmitter in the
feline lower esophageal sphincter.

Parkman HP(1), Reynolds JC, Elfman KS, Ogorek CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia 19104-4283.

The effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on the feline lower
esophageal sphincter (LES) was determined and correlated with its anatomic
distribution as determined by immunohistochemistry. Intraluminal pressures of the
esophagus and LES were recorded in anesthetized cats. In separate cats,
gastroesophageal junctions were removed after locating the LES manometrically and
stained for CGRP-like immunoreactivity (LI) and substance P-LI (SP-LI) by
indirect immunohistochemistry. CGRP-LI in the LES was most prominent in large
nerve fascicles between the circular and longitudinal muscle layers and only
rarely seen in nerve fibers within the circular muscle. The myenteric plexus
contained numerous CGRP-LI nerve fibers but cell bodies were not seen. Many
CGRP-LI nerve fibers in the myenteric plexus and occasional varicose nerves in
the circular muscle demonstrated colocalization with SP-LI. Colocalization of
CGRP-LI with SP-LI was also seen in the perivascular nerves of the submucosal and
intramural blood vessels and in varicose fibers in the lamina propria of the
gastric fundic mucosa. In the esophagus, CGRP-LI nerves extended through the
muscularis mucosa and penetrated the squamous epithelium to the lumen. CGRP,
given intra-arterially caused a dose-dependent fall in basal LES pressure, with a
threshold dose of 10(-8) g/kg (2.63 pmol/kg). At the maximal effective dose, 5 x 
10(-6) g/kg (1.31 x 10(3) pmol/kg), CGRP produced 61.0 +/- 6.0% decrease in basal
LES pressure. At this dose, mean systemic blood pressure fell by 40.9 +/- 7.8%.
The LES relaxation induced by a submaximal dose of CGRP (10(-6) g/kg, 262.7
pmol/kg), 50.3 +/- 3.2% relaxation was partially inhibited by tetrodotoxin (26.9 
+/- 10.8% relaxation, P less than 0.025). The inhibitory effect of CGRP was not
affected by cervical vagotomy, hexamethonium, atropine, propranolol, or naloxone.
The LES contractile response to the D90 of SP (5 x 10(-8) g/kg, 37.1 pmol/kg) was
not altered by CGRP 10(-8) or 10(-6) g/kg and the CGRP relaxation effect was not 
altered by the threshold dose of substance P (5 X 10(-9) g/kg, 3.71
pmol/kg).CONCLUSIONS: (1) CGRP-LI is present at the feline LES and is primarily
seen in large nerve fascicles which pass from the intermuscular plane and through
the circular muscle layer to the submucosa and in mucosal nerves. (2) CGRP
colocalizes with SP-LI in some varicose nerve fibers of the circular muscle of
the esophagus, LES and fundus, in perivascular nerves of the submucosal and
intramucosal blood vessels, and in nerves of the lamina propria of the gastric
fundus. (3) The luminal penetration of CGRP-LI nerves in the squamous mucosa of
the esophagus suggests a sensory func

PMID: 2470120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Respir Care. 1989 Apr;34(4):254-61.

Evaluation of five adult disposable operator-powered resuscitators.

Barnes TA, Potash R.

We evaluated the performance and safety of five adult disposable operator-powered
resuscitators: BagEasy, Bag Mask Resuscitator, Pulmanex, 1st Response, and Stat
Blue.METHOD: We tested the devices against the American Society for Testing and
Materials (ASTM) Standard F-920-85. We tested each resuscitator by using it to
ventilate a lung model, the Bio-Tek VT-1 Adult Ventilator Tester.
RESULTS: All resuscitators met the requirements of VT 600 mL, f 20/min, and I:E
less than 1:1. Standard F-920 specifies a fractional delivered O2 concentration
(FDO2) greater than or equal to 0.85 with attachments and greater than or equal
to 0.40 without attachments, at oxygen flows of 15 L/min and VE of 7.2 L (600 mL 
x 12). The Pulmanex with bag reservoir attached had a mean +/- SD FDO2 of 0.74
+/- 0.02, and the other four devices had an FDO2 of 0.93 +/- 0.02. Without
attachments only the 1st Response and BagEasy had FDO2 greater than or equal to
0.40. All devices when disabled with simulated vomitus were restored to proper
function within 20 s and were functional at O2 flow of 30 L/min. Only the Bag
Mask Resuscitator did not pass the drop test. Only the Stat Blue did not pass the
back-leak test.
CONCLUSIONS: Although we do not have practical experience with these
resuscitators, we conclude that only 1st Response and BagEasy meet the ASTM
standard for operator-powered resuscitators and that, of the devices tested, only
the 1st Response and BagEasy are acceptable replacements for permanent
resuscitators.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 10315774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1989 Apr;42(4):240-5.

[Value of the stress test in patients with coronary spasm].

[Article in Spanish]

Castelló R, Alegría E, Merino A, Hidalgo R, Aparici M, Martínez Caro D.

Ninety-one consecutive patients with angiographically documented spasm who
performed a bicycle stress test within one week before diagnostic coronary
angiography are studied. Stress test induced ST elevation in 8 patients (9%), ST 
depression in 37 (41%) and no ST shifts in 46 (50%). ST response to exercise did 
not correlate with any of the clinical variables assessed except for coronary
anatomy. ST depression was a highly specific sign of underlying coronary lesions,
with a high positive predictive value (89%). Patients were stratified according
to the type of angina and their post-test probability of significant coronary
disease was calculated following Bayes' theorem. The post-test likelihoods of
significant coronary stenosis (positive and negative test, respectively) were: 82
and 37% for patients with angina at rest; 90 and 53% for those with effort
angina, and 98 and 85% for those with mixed angina.IN CONCLUSION: 1) stress
testing in patients with coronary spasm correlates well with coronary anatomy; 2)
ST depression strongly suggests the presence of underlying coronary stenosis; 3) 
stress testing is especially useful in patients with angina exclusively at rest.

PMID: 2781118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Apr;8(4):269-73.

[Behavior of arterial pressure during administration of intravenous
streptokinase, in patients with acute myocardial infarct].

[Article in Portuguese]

Torres S, Albuquerque A, Gomes L, Pimenta A.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect on blood pressure (BP) of intravenous (IV)
streptokinase (SK) in patients (PTS) with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
DESIGN: Retrospective study with analysis of BP registers ten minutes before and 
during SK infusion.
SETTING: PTS admitted to the Coronary Care Unit (CCU) of Santo António Hospital, 
Oporto.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight male PTS, average ages of 54, ranging from 38 to 67, AMI
confirmed, and criteria to thrombolytic therapy. One patient was excluded on
account of persistent hypotension since admission.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: IV infusion of 1,500,000 U of SK over 60 minutes, preceded 
by 200 mg IV of prednisolone. BP and heart rate (HR) were evaluated with a
Datascope Accutorr 1A set. The lowest value of the systolic BP (SBP) recorded ten
minutes before SK infusion was considered the baseline value. We valued the
reduction of SBP above 15%, defining its fall as the difference between the
baseline value and the minimum value of SBP recorded during the infusion.
Hypotension was defined to SBP values below 90 mmHg.
MAIN RESULTS: The SBP fall was 40.4 +/- 22.1 mmHg (range 9 to 102), having been
recorded the minimum value at 22.9 +/- 10.9 minutes. It was accompanied by
diastolic BP (DBP) fall of 30.6 +/- 18.9 mmHg (range -2 to 76) and by a HR
increasing from 76.2 +/- 13.7 beats/min. to 80.8 +/- 14.1 beats/min. (p less than
0.01). In 86% of the PTS this fall was transient, lasting 8.9 +/- 6.3 minutes,
and was corrected by slowing or stopping the infusion for a few minutes and
placing the patient in Trendelenburg position. Two PTS needed sympaticomimetic
amines because of persistent BP reduction despite the previous measures. 92% of
the PTS had a SBP fall higher than 15% in relation to the baseline value. The SBP
was kept over 90 mmHg in 20 PTS (54%); hypotension was recorded in the remaining 
14 PTS (38%), and in 10 (27%) of these the SBP fell below 80 mmHg. We couldn't
prove that the infarction location and the extension of the ischemic lesion had
influenced this BP fall.
CONCLUSION: The BP reduction during treatment with high doses of SK deserves some
attention because, although transient and easily reversible, it is frequent and
sometimes significative. It demands then careful monitoring in order to avoid the
hypoperfusion to the ischemic myocardium, that could jeopardize the potential
benefits of reperfusion in the reduction of infarction area, the main objective
of the thrombolytic treatment.

PMID: 2631844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Scand J Clin Lab Invest. 1989 Apr;49(2):103-8.

Glomerular filtration rate and kidney volume in normoalbuminuric
non-insulin-dependent diabetics--lack of glomerular hyperfiltration and renal
hypertrophy in uncomplicated NIDDM.

Schmitz A(1), Christensen T, Taagehoej Jensen F.

Author information: 
(1)Second University Clinic of Internal Medicine, Aarhus Kommunehospital, Denmark.

Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and kidney volume were evaluated in 18 healthy
normoalbuminuric non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients and compared to 12
healthy controls matched for sex, age and body mass index (BMI). The patients (12
males, six females) were 61.6 +/- 3.4 (mean +/- SD) years old, the known diabetes
duration was 5 +/- 4.8 years, fasting plasma glucose 8.6 +/- 2.3 mmol/l, urinary 
albumin excretion rate 7.9 x/divided by 2.0 micrograms/min, BMI 26.8 +/- 2.8
kg/m2 and blood pressure systolic/diastolic 145 +/- 19/82 +/- 7 mmHg. The GFR was
measured by the plasma clearance of [51Cr]EDTA, using a single shot procedure.
The kidney volume was measured by ultrasonic scanning. The GFR was not increased 
in diabetics: 100.4 +/- 16.7 ml/min/1.73 m2 as compared to controls: 93.8 +/-
11.4 ml/min/1.73 m2. The kidney volume was similar in the two groups. Diabetics: 
231.1 +/- 33.4 ml/1.73 m2.CONTROLS: 236.3 +/- 45.7 ml/1.73 m2. There was a
borderline significant correlation between kidney volume and GFR (r = 0.40, p =
0.10) in diabetics. No correlation between glycosylated haemoglobin and GFR was
found in diabetics. In contrast to the findings in insulin-dependent diabetes
renal hypertrophy and hyperfunction were not characteristic features in this
series of non-insulin-dependent diabetics. It is suggested that diabetic
glomerulopathy is not always a consequence of long-standing hyperfiltration.

PMID: 2520361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 1989 Apr;60(1):31-7.

[Effects of interpersonal relationship, interpersonal distance, and gender on
nonverbal behavior in dyads of strangers and acquaintances].

[Article in Japanese]

Wada M.

Author information: 
Department of Educational Psychology, Faculty of Education, Nagoya University.

To investigate the effects of actual relationship in dyads (strangers or
acquaintances), interpersonal distance, and gender on nonverbal behavior, 32 (16 
male and 16 female) undergraduates interact in same sex pair for 7 minutes. The
nonverbal behavior investigated was look, eye contact, body orientation, head
orientation, body lean, and utterance. The interactions were video-taped.MAJOR
FINDINGS: 1. Effects of the relationship were found in the frequency of look,
duration, frequency, and mean duration of smile, and frequency of body lean
(forward). 2. Effects of the interpersonal distance were found in the duration
and frequency of smile, frequency of head orientation, duration and frequency of 
body lean (forward), and duration of eye contact and utterance. 3. Sex
differences were found in the frequency of look, duration of smile, duration and 
frequency of body lean (forward), and duration of eye contact.

PMID: 2796037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1989 Apr;69(4):200-2, 16.

[Changes of angiotensin II and angiotensin-converting enzyme in cor pulmonale
with respiratory failure].

[Article in Chinese]

Guan SB.

Angiotensin II (ATII), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and plasma renin
activity (PRA) were measured by radioimmunoassay and fluorometry in 55 cases of
cor pulmonale with type II respiratory failure, 48 healthy people and 46 COPD
patients.THE RESULTS: 1. The concentration of ATII in respiratory failure group
was higher than that in the healthy people and in the COPD patients. The activity
of ACE was lower and PRA was higher in the respiratory failure group than those
in the other groups. 2. ATII in the dead was higher than that in the remittent.
3. After oxygen treatment, ATII of the patients with PaO2 greater than 8.0 kPa
was lower than that of the patients with PaO2 less than 8.0 kPa, but ACE and PRA 
of the former were lower than those of the latter. 4. ATII and ACE of the
respiratory failure group were closely related to PaO2. It was concluded that
during hypoxemia one of the responses to high ATII in the human body was the
decrease of ACE. But both the increase of PRA and the insufficient decrease of
ACE in the patients with respiratory failure enhance the concentration of ATII.
Also the concentration of ATII was related to the prognosis of the patients, and 
merely supplying the patient with oxygen cannot restore normal ATII. So, in
addition to oxygen treatment, it is significant to inhibit PRA and ACE and use
ATII as an indicator while dealing with cor pulmonale with cardiac and
respiratory failure.

PMID: 2550115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Taipei). 1989 Apr;43(4):223-8.

The efficacy and safety of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator infusion in
acute myocardial infarction.

Wang SP, Liu CP, Charng MJ, Chou CY, Tsai JH, Pan JP, Shyong WC, Chan WL, Kong
CW, Chang MS, et al.

Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is the most promising agent use 
for salvaging ischemic myocardium in acute infarction. To assess the safety and
efficacy of rt-PA thrombolytic therapy, an open label clinical trial was
conducted. Patients of acute myocardial infarction with angina, occurring within 
the five previous hours, was treated with rt-PA 100 mg infusion within three
hours; followed with coronary arteriography to assess the patency rate of infarct
vessels. Twenty-five cases of acute myocardial infarction were studied over a
10-month period. The patients, 24 male and one female, were aged 58.1 +/- 7.7
years. Rt-PA was given at 3.17 +/- 1.0 hour. Infarct-related vessels had opened
in 21/24 cases when examined with coronary arteriogram three hours after
infusion. Good antegrade flow of grade 2 to 3 was gained in 20/24 cases,
representing an 83% success rate. One patient expired from cardiogenic shock
during the infusion; another was expired from noncardiac accident after coronary 
bypass graft. The total inhospital mortality rate was about 8%. There was no
major bleeding complication except in one case with gastrointestinal bleeding
requiring transfusion.IN CONCLUSION: rt-PA is safe and effective in the treatment
of acute myocardial infarction in the early stage. Coronary arteriography can be 
safely delayed until three hours postinfusion, and the achieved reperfusion rate 
is up to 83%.

PMID: 2509051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. BMJ. 1989 Mar 25;298(6676):809-12.

One hundred pregnancies after treatment with pulsatile luteinising hormone
releasing hormone to induce ovulation.

Homburg R(1), Eshel A, Armar NA, Tucker M, Mason PW, Adams J, Kilborn J,
Sutherland IA, Jacobs HS.

Author information: 
(1)Cobbold Laboratories, University College, London.

OBJECTIVE: To review treatment with pulsatile luteinising hormone releasing
hormone in infertile women who do not ovulate and are resistant to clomiphene
after 100 pregnancies achieved with this treatment.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of 146 courses of treatment over 434 cycles.
SETTING: Infertility clinic.
PATIENTS: 118 Women whose failure to ovulate was due to idiopathic
hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (n = 39), amenorrhoea related to low weight (n =
17), organic pituitary disease (n = 15), or polycystic ovaries (n = 47).
INTERVENTIONS: Dose of 15 micrograms luteinising hormone releasing hormone/pulse 
subcutaneously every 90 minutes given with a miniaturised pump throughout cycle
monitored by ultrasound. Women with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism had 48
courses, women with amenorrhoea related to low weight 23, women with organic
pituitary disease 18, and women with polycystic ovaries 57.
END POINT: Follow up of 100 pregnancies achieved in 77 women during six years
after introducing treatment. MEASUREMENTS and main results--One hundred
pregnancies (seven multiple, 28 miscarriages). Cumulative rates of pregnancy were
93-100% at six months in women with idiopathic hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism,
amenorrhoea related to low weight, and organic pituitary disease. In women with
polycystic ovaries (cumulative rate of pregnancy 74%) adverse prognostic factors 
were obesity, hyperandrogenism, and high luteinising hormone concentrations,
which were also associated with a high rate of early pregnancy loss.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with pulsatile luteinising hormone releasing hormone is
safe, simple, and effective, and the preferred method of inducing ovulation in
appropriately selected patients. Compared with exogenous gonadotrophin treatment 
there is little need for monitoring, no danger of hyperstimulation, and a low
rate of multiple pregnancies.

PMCID: PMC1836076
PMID: 2496866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. BMJ. 1989 Mar 25;298(6676):795-801.

Effects on birth weight of smoking, alcohol, caffeine, socioeconomic factors, and
psychosocial stress.

Brooke OG(1), Anderson HR, Bland JM, Peacock JL, Stewart CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Child Health, St George's Hospital Medical School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of smoking, alcohol, and caffeine
consumption and socio-economic factors and psychosocial stress on birth weight.
DESIGN: Prospective population study.
SETTING: District general hospital in inner London.
PARTICIPANTS: A consecutive series of 1860 white women booking for delivery were 
approached. 136 Refused and 211 failed to complete the study for other reasons
(moved, abortion, subsequent refusal), leaving a sample of 1513. Women who spoke 
no English, booked after 24 weeks, had insulin dependent diabetes, or had a
multiple pregnancy were excluded.
MEASUREMENTS: Data were obtained by research interviewers at booking (general
health questionnaire, modified Paykel's interview, and Eysenck personality
questionnaire) and at 17, 28, and 36 weeks' gestation and from the structured
antenatal and obstetric record. Variables assessed included smoking, alcohol
consumption, caffeine consumption, and over 40 indicators of socio-economic state
and psychosocial stress, including social class, tenure of accommodations,
education, employment, income, anxiety and depression, stressful life events,
social stress, social support, personality, and attitudes to pregnancy. Birth
weight was corrected for gestation and adjusted for maternal height, parity, and 
baby's sex.
MAIN RESULTS: Smoking was the most important single factor (5% reduction in
corrected birth weight). Passive smoking was not significant (0.5% reduction).
After smoking was controlled for, alcohol had an effect only in smokers and the
effects of caffeine became non-significant. Only four of the socioeconomic and
stress factors significantly reduced birth weight and these effects became
non-significant after smoking was controlled for.
CONCLUSIONS: Social and psychological factors have little or no direct effect on 
birth weight corrected for gestational age (fetal growth), and the main
environmental cause of its variation in this population was smoking.

PIP: This prospective population study attempted to investigate the effects of
smoking, alcohol, and caffeine consumption and socioeconomic factors and
psychosocial stress on birthweight. A consecutive series of 1860 white women
booking for delivery at a district general hospital in inner London were asked to
participate. 136 refused and 211 failed to complete the study for other reasons
(relocation, abortion, subsequent refusal), leaving a sample of 1513. Women who
spoke no English, booked after 24 weeks, had insulin-dependent diabetes, or had a
multiple pregnancy were excluded. Data were obtained by research interviewers at 
booking (general health questionnaire, modified Paykel's interview, and Eysenck
personality questionnaire), at 17, 28, and 36 weeks' gestation, and from the
structured antenatal and obstetric record. Variables assessed included smoking,
alcohol consumption, caffeine consumption, and over 40 indicators of
socioeconomic status and psychosocial stress, including social class, tenure of
accomodation, educational status, employment status, income, anxiety and
depression, stressful life events, social stress, social support, personality,
and attitudes to pregnancy. Birthweight was adjusted for gestation and for
maternal height, parity, and baby's sex. Smoking was the single most important
factor (5% reduction in corrected birthweight). Passive smoking was not
significant (0.5% reduction). After smoking was controlled for, alcohol had an
effect only in smokers and the effects of caffeine became significant. Only 4 of 
the socioeconomic and stress factors significantly reduced birthweight and these 
became nonsignificant after smoking was controlled for. Social and psychological 
factors have little or no direct effect on birthweight corrected for gestational 
age (fetal growth), and the main environmental cause of its variation in this
population was smoking. author's modified
author's modified

PMCID: PMC1836053
PMID: 2496859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nihon Gan Chiryo Gakkai Shi. 1989 Mar 20;24(3):622-5.

[The combined therapy of local administration of OK-432 and radiation in
carcinoma of the trachea].

[Article in Japanese]

Mukai M, Morita S, Kawano Y, Tsunemoto H.

A CASE REPORT: A newly developed treatment method of local administration of
OK-432 bronchoscopically combined with irradiation was applied to a patient with 
carcinoma of the Trachea complaining dyspnea and dysphagia. The tumor showed
extra-wall growth. Dyspnea was improved in a week and the tumor disappeared after
the treatment. A patient became to take food orally and could discharge in well
condition.

PMID: 2768974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. BMJ. 1989 Mar 18;298(6675):705-7.

Effect of melatonin on jet lag after long haul flights.

Petrie K(1), Conaglen JV, Thompson L, Chamberlain K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Waikato Hospital, Hamilton, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether doses of the pineal hormone melatonin alleviate
jet lag.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled crossover trial.
SETTING: Long haul return flights from Auckland, New Zealand, to London and back.
SUBJECTS: Twenty volunteers with experience of transcontinental flights (eight
women and 12 men aged 28 to 68).
INTERVENTIONS: Melatonin (or placebo) 5 mg three days before flight, during
flight, and once a day for three days after arrival.
END POINT: Symptoms of jet lag.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Visual analogue scale for feelings of jet lag and 
tiredness; profile of moods states questionnaire for vigour-activity and
fatigue-inertia; and retrospective ratings 10 days after arrival of sleep
pattern, energy, and daytime tiredness. Feelings of jet lag were less for
subjects taking melatonin (mean score 2.15 v 3.4); these subjects took fewer days
than the placebo group to establish a normal sleep pattern (2.85 v 4.15), to not 
feel tired during the day (3.0 v 4.6), and to reach normal energy levels (3.25 v 
4.7). Results for fatigue-inertia and vigour-activity were similar. For all
subjects jet lag was more severe on the return (westward) than the outward
(eastward) journey.
CONCLUSIONS: Melatonin can alleviate jet lag and tiredness after long haul
flights.

PMCID: PMC1835985
PMID: 2496815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):430-6.

Osteoporosis in hemochromatosis: iron excess, gonadal deficiency, or other
factors?

Diamond T(1), Stiel D, Posen S.

Author information: 
(1)Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To define the prevalence, severity, type and pathogenesis of
osteopenia in idiopathic hemochromatosis.
DESIGN: Prospective study conducted over 18 months.
SETTING: Tertiary care center.
SUBJECTS: Twenty-two men with idiopathic hemochromatosis and 20 age-matched
controls. There were 5 hypogonadal patients, 9 eugonadal nonvenesected patients, 
and 8 eugonadal venesected patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients and controls were evaluated by spinal
radiography, spinal and forearm bone mineral density estimations, dynamic
skeletal histomorphometry, and serum biochemistry. Ten patients (45%; 95% CI, 24%
to 68%) had osteoporosis as defined by spinal and forearm bone density
measurements. Trabecular bone volumes were significantly reduced in the patients 
(the difference in means between patients and age-matched controls was 3.9%; CI, 
1.3% to 6.7%). No patient had osteomalacia. Hypogonadal men had lower bone mass
measurements than eugonadal men (radial bone density: beta coefficient = -20.5;
CI, -29.2 to -11.8; trabecular bone volume: beta coefficient = -7.1; CI, -10.8 to
-3.3). Osteoid and osteoblastic surfaces and bone formation rates were
significantly greater in the eugonadal venesected compared with the eugonadal
nonvenesected persons (P less than 0.05 for all measurements).
CONCLUSIONS: A significant decrease in bone density is seen in idiopathic
hemochromatosis, particularly when hypogonadism is present. Low serum
free-testosterone concentrations rather than the calciotrophic hormones determine
bone mass in this condition.

PMID: 2919850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):426-9.

Nebulized albuterol for acute hyperkalemia in patients on hemodialysis.

Allon M(1), Dunlay R, Copkney C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oklahoma School of Medicine, Oklahoma City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and safety of nebulized albuterol in
the acute treatment of hyperkalemia in patients on chronic hemodialysis.
DESIGN: Prospective, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study.
SETTING: Outpatient hemodialysis clinic at a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Ten patients on maintenance hemodialysis who had chronic hyperkalemia.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received nebulized albuterol therapy (10 mg or 20 mg) or 
placebo (saline) on three separate occasions, serial measurements of plasma
potassium levels, blood pressure, and pulse were then taken for a 2-hour period.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULT: Patients had a significant decrease in plasma
potassium concentrations that was evident by 30 minutes and sustained for at
least 2 hours after albuterol treatment. After the administration of 10- and
20-mg doses of albuterol, the maximal decrease in the plasma potassium levels was
0.62 +/- 0.09 and 0.98 +/- 0.14 mmol/L (SE), respectively. Nebulized saline
administration did not produce a significant change in the plasma potassium
concentrations. Patients did not develop symptoms or significant changes in blood
pressure or heart rate with albuterol treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In the doses used, nebulized albuterol therapy resulted in a prompt 
and significant decrease in the plasma potassium concentrations in patients on
hemodialysis, and caused no adverse cardiovascular effects. This treatment should
be considered as an important adjunct for acute treatment of serious hyperkalemia
in this population of patients.

PMID: 2919849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):446-50.

Interleukin-2 in scleroderma: correlation of serum level with extent of skin
involvement and disease duration.

Kahaleh MB(1), LeRoy EC.

Author information: 
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether interleukin-2 has a role in the pathogenesis
of scleroderma.
DESIGN: Observe serum effect on the in-vitro growth of an interleukin-2-dependent
cytotoxic T-cell line and determine serum level by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assay.
SETTING: Outpatient rheumatology clinic of a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Sera were collected from 47 patients with scleroderma, 20 patients with
rheumatoid arthritis, and 14 matched control subjects.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A significant mitogenic effect was observed in
sera from patients with scleroderma of recent onset; a lower proliferative
response was seen in rheumatoid sera. Matched control sera had no mitogenic
activity. Sera from patients with scleroderma of recent onset supported the
in-vitro growth of an interleukin-2-dependent cytotoxic T-cell line. Matched
control sera had no similar mitogenic activity. Interleukin-2 was found in sera
from 41 of 47 patients with scleroderma (204 +/- 356 U/mL, mean +/- SD), in 9 of 
20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (2.04 +/- 5.16), and in none of 14 matched 
control subjects. There was a positive correlation between serum level and the
skin progression index (skin score/disease duration).
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of interleukin-2 in scleroderma sera strongly supports 
a role for T-cell activation in scleroderma. The association between serum levels
and disease progression indicates that this T-cell process may participate in the
progression of the disease.

PMID: 2784042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):451-5.

Wheezing on maximal forced exhalation in the diagnosis of atypical asthma. Lack
of sensitivity and specificity.

King DK(1), Thompson BT, Johnson DC.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether wheezing on maximal forced exhalation is a 
predictor of asthma in persons with normal or nearly normal baseline spirometry.
DESIGN: Prospective study of patients referred for methacholine challenge
testing.
SETTING: Pulmonary function laboratory at a hospital.
PATIENTS: Forty-four patients referred for methacholine challenge testing because
of the clinical suspicion of cough variant or otherwise difficult to diagnose
asthma, with normal or nearly normal baseline spirometry and without wheezing on 
routine lung auscultation during quiet breathing.
INTERVENTIONS: We listened for wheezing on maximal forced exhalation. Wheezing
was defined as a continuous sound with a musical quality. Methacholine challenge 
testing was done. The concentration of methacholine required to produce a 20%
fall in baseline FEV1 (PC20) of less than 8 mg/mL was considered a positive test 
for asthma.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Wheezing was present on maximal forced exhalation 
in 8 of 14 patients with a positive methacholine challenge test (sensitivity =
57%) and absent in 11 of 30 patients with a negative test (specificity = 37%).
Furthermore, wheezing on maximal forced exhalation was present in 13 of 27
patients with a PC20 greater than 16 mg/mL and absent in 2 of 7 with a PC20 less 
than 4 mg/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: Wheezing on maximal forced exhalation is neither sensitive nor
specific for airway hyperreactivity.

PMID: 2645821  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):421-5.

Balloon valvuloplasty in adult aortic stenosis: determinants of clinical outcome.

Sherman W(1), Hershman R, Lazzam C, Cohen M, Ambrose J, Gorlin R.

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical variables affecting outcome after
balloon aortic valvuloplasty.
DESIGN: Longitudinal follow-up of consecutive case series.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 36 patients with severe calcific aortic stenosis,
and without active infection or left ventricular mural thrombus.
INTERVENTIONS: Percutaneous transluminal dilatation of the aortic valve until the
peak gradient was reduced by 50% or a maximal balloon size was used. Hemodynamic 
measurements taken before and after dilatation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-three patients had a successful dilatation.
Eighty-nine percent (95% confidence interval [CI]. 74% to 97%) improved
symptomatically at 2 weeks, but by 26 weeks only 56% (CI, 35% to 76%) remained
improved (P = 0.0078). Mortality rates were high at 8 (9%) and 26 (28%) weeks.
Predictors of adverse events included left ventricular ejection fraction (P =
0.04, r = 0.46), pulmonary artery systolic pressure (P = 0.048, r = 0.65),
pulmonary vascular resistance (P = 0.008, r = 0.69), and right ventricular
end-diastolic pressure (P = 0.009, r = 0.43) at 8 weeks and all these factors
except left ventricular ejection fraction at 26 weeks. These clinical outcomes
were unrelated to other cardiac or pulmonary diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Symptomatic improvement is only temporary in many patients
undergoing balloon aortic valvuloplasty, and the mortality rate in the mid-term
follow-up period is high. Valve surgery remains the treatment of choice for
aortic stenosis in the adult.

PMID: 2645820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):456-69.

The role of exercise testing in screening for coronary artery disease.

Sox HC Jr(1), Littenberg B, Garber AM.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):257-8.

PURPOSE: To predict the effects of using exercise testing to screen healthy
persons for coronary artery disease.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: The publications of the Coronary Artery Surgery Study were
the principal sources of data for the cost-effectiveness analysis; we also used
data from the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of stable angina and the 
publications of the European Coronary Surgery Study Group.
STUDY SELECTION: We used studies that provided the data that our decision model
required--life expectancy and probabilities of outcomes in persons who have or do
not have coronary artery disease.
DATA EXTRACTION: We did not use a structured method for abstracting data. We
tested the susceptibility of our conclusions to poor quality of data by
substituting a wide range of values for a variable in the decision model, and by 
calculating life expectancy and costs if screening was used routinely or not
used.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: We assumed that persons with an abnormal exercise test
would have arteriography and that persons with severe coronary artery disease
would have bypass surgery. When there were no suitable published data for the
model, we made assumptions that favored screening. The model predicts that
screening would increase the life expectancy of 60-year-old men at average risk
by at most 12 days. Sixty-year-old men with no risk factors for coronary artery
disease would derive less benefit, as would women and younger men.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of exercise testing is too small to justify doing this
procedure routinely in healthy persons. If coronary bypass surgery is found to
prolong life in asymptomatic persons as much as it does in angina pectoris,
screening older men with risk factors for coronary artery disease may prove to be
worthwhile.

PMID: 2493211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. BMJ. 1989 Mar 11;298(6674):645-7.

Omeprazole and cimetidine in the treatment of ulcers of the body of the stomach: 
a double blind comparative trial. Danish Omeprazole Study Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 May 6;298(6682):1249-50.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether omeprazole was superior to cimetidine in healing ulcers
of the body of the stomach.
DESIGN: Double blind randomised parallel group study of omeprazole versus
cimetidine for six weeks with assessment of healing at end of every second week.
SETTING: Outpatient referrals in 11 centres in Denmark.
PATIENTS: One hundred sixty one patients who satisfied the following criteria:
age 18-79; one or more ulcers of body of stomach (that is, at or above the
angulus) seen endoscopically within four days before study treatment; no H2
receptor antagonists taken within previous two weeks; no history of gastric
surgery and no complications needing surgery; no concurrent treatment or disease 
that might confound assessment; oral contraception or an intrauterine device
being used by women of childbearing age.
INTERVENTIONS: Omeprazole 30 mg daily (one capsule in the morning) or cimetidine 
1 g daily (one 200 mg tablet thrice daily, two tablets at bedtime) for six weeks.
Inactive capsules and tablets provided so that all patients took same number of
capsules and tablets daily. Compliance monitored by pill counts.
END POINT: Endoscopic evidence of accelerated healing of type I gastric ulcers
after four weeks of omeprazole.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Pain recorded on diary cards and patients assessed
after two, four, and six weeks of treatment for clinical state and by endoscopy
and biopsy and repeat laboratory tests. Twenty eight patients withdrawn during
trial for violations of protocol. At two weeks healing rates were identical in
the two treatment groups (omeprazole 41% (30/73 patients); cimetidine 41%
(30/73]. At four weeks cumulative healing rates were 77% (53/69 patients) in the 
omeprazole treatment group and 58% (41/71) in the cimetidine treatment group (95%
confidence interval of difference between groups 4% to 34%). By six weeks the
cumulative healing rates in the two treatment groups differed by only 6% (60/68
patients (88%) given omeprazole; 53/65 (82%) given cimetidine). Log rank analysis
with ulcer size used as covariable showed a significant difference in healing
times in favour of omeprazole. There was no difference in the occurrence of pain 
relief between the two treatment groups. No serious clinical or biochemical side 
effects of treatment were noted.
CONCLUSIONS: Omeprazole 30 mg daily accelerates healing of ulcers in the body of 
the stomach as compared with cimetidine 1 g daily. This effect is more pronounced
in ulcers greater than 12 mm diameter.

PMCID: PMC1835857
PMID: 2496791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. BMJ. 1989 Mar 11;298(6674):636-42.

Effect of oral nimodipine on cerebral infarction and outcome after subarachnoid
haemorrhage: British aneurysm nimodipine trial.

Pickard JD(1), Murray GD, Illingworth R, Shaw MD, Teasdale GM, Foy PM, Humphrey
PR, Lang DA, Nelson R, Richards P, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Wessex Neurological Centre, Southampton General Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of oral nimodipine in reducing cerebral
infarction and poor outcomes (death and severe disability) after subarachnoid
haemorrhage.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, randomised trial with three months of
follow up and intention to treat analysis. To have an 80% chance with a
significance level of 0.05 of detecting a 50% reduction in an incidence of
cerebral infarction of 15% a minimum of 540 patients was required.
SETTING: Four regional neurosurgical units in the United Kingdom.
PATIENTS: In all 554 patients were recruited between June 1985 and September 1987
out of a population of 1115 patients admitted with subarachnoid haemorrhage
proved by the results of lumbar puncture or computed tomography, or both. The
main exclusion criterion was admission to the neurosurgical units more than 96
hours after subarachnoid haemorrhage. There were four breaks of code and no
exclusions after entry. One patient was withdrawn and in 130 treatment was
discontinued early. All patients were followed up for three months and were
included in the analysis, except the patient who had been withdrawn.
INTERVENTIONS: Placebo or nimodipine 60 mg was given orally every four hours for 
21 days to 276 and 278 patients, respectively. Treatment was started within 96
hours after subarachnoid haemorrhage.
END POINTS: Incidence of cerebral infarction and ischaemic neurological deficits 
and outcome three months after entry.
MEASUREMENTS: Demographic and clinical data, including age, sex, history of
hypertension and subarachnoid haemorrhage, severity of haemorrhage according to
an adaptation of the Glasgow coma scale, number and site of aneurysms on
angiography, and initial findings on computed tomography were measured at entry. 
Deterioration, defined as development of a focal sign or fall of more than one
point on the Glasgow coma scale for more than six hours, was investigated by
using clinical criteria and by computed tomography, by lumbar puncture, or at
necropsy when appropriate. All episodes of deterioration and all patients with a 
three month outcome other than a good recovery were assessed by a review
committee.
MAIN RESULTS: Demographic and clinical data at entry were similar in the two
groups. In patients given nimodipine the incidence of cerebral infarction was 22%
(61/278) compared with 33% (92/276) in those given placebo, a significant
reduction of 34% (95% confidence interval 13 to 50%). Poor outcomes were also
significantly reduced by 40% (95% confidence interval 20 to 55%) with nimodipine 
(20% (55/278) in patients given nimodipine v 33% (91/278) in those given
placebo).
CONCLUSIONS: Oral nimodipine 60 mg four hourly is well tolerated and reduces
cerebral infarction snd improves outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage.

PMCID: PMC1835889
PMID: 2496789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. BMJ. 1989 Mar 4;298(6673):558-60.

Incidence of insulin dependent diabetes in England: a study in the Oxford region,
1985-6.

Bingley PJ(1), Gale EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diabetes and Immunogenetics, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus up
to the age of 21 in a geographically defined population in England with
independent validation of completeness of case ascertainment.
DESIGN: Prospective registration of newly diagnosed cases supplemented by
centralised hospital discharge records and death certificates. Validation of
ascertainment from general practitioners.
SETTING: Oxford Regional Health Authority area (population 2.4 million).
PATIENTS: All patients with insulin dependent diabetes diagnosed below age 21
during 1985-6 and resident in the region at the time of diagnosis.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
END POINT: Validation of a method of case ascertainment for assessing temporal
variation in incidence of insulin dependent diabetes.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The overall yearly incidence of newly diagnosed
insulin dependent diabetes mellitus in people under 21 was 15.6 cases/100,000
(95% confidence interval 13.6 to 17.6). Among males the incidence was 16.8 cases 
(14.0 to 19.7)/100,000 and among females 14.3 cases (11.6 to 17.1)/100,000. The
highest incidence, in the 10-14 year age group, was 26.4 (20.9 to 31.8) new
cases/100,000 population yearly. Case ascertainment was greater than 95%.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of insulin dependent diabetes in England is
considerably higher than reported from large scale studies. It is consistent with
described patterns of geographical variation. The figures provide a baseline for 
assessing temporal change.

PMCID: PMC1835904
PMID: 2495112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. BMJ. 1989 Mar 4;298(6673):561-4.

Comparison of intravenous infusions of iloprost and oral nifedipine in treatment 
of Raynaud's phenomenon in patients with systemic sclerosis: a double blind
randomised study.

Rademaker M(1), Cooke ED, Almond NE, Beacham JA, Smith RE, Mant TG, Kirby JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the long term effects of short term intravenous infusions
of iloprost with those of oral nifedipine in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon
associated with systemic sclerosis.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, randomised group comparison.
SETTING: Dermatology outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: Twenty three patients with Raynaud's phenomenon associated with well
documented systemic sclerosis (American Rheumatism Association criteria) and with
typical abnormalities in fingernail folds on capillaroscopy.
INTERVENTIONS: Twelve patients were randomised to receive intravenous infusions
of iloprost starting at 0.5 ng/kg/min and increased by 0.5 ng/kg/min every 15
minutes to a maximum of 2.0 ng/kg/min for eight hours on three consecutive days
with a further single infusion at week 8. Placebo capsules were given
concurrently. Eleven patients were randomised to receive nifedipine, starting at 
30 mg daily and increased to 60 mg daily after four weeks for another 12 weeks.
Infusions of placebo were given in the same manner as the infusions of iloprost. 
One patient from each group withdrew because of social reasons and three patients
receiving nifedipine withdrew because of side effects.
END POINT: Reduction in number, duration, and severity of attacks of Raynaud's
phenomenon, reduction in number of digital lesions, increase in digital blood
flow.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Measurements were taken at 0, 4, 8, 12, and 16
weeks. Both regimens produced a reduction in the number, duration, and severity
of attacks of Raynaud's phenomenon. The mean (SE) number of digital lesions was
reduced with iloprost (from 3.5 (1.6) to 0.6 (0.3] and with nifedipine (from 4.3 
(0.8) to 1.4 (0.5] after 16 weeks. Hand temperature and digital and
microcirculatory blood flow were increased with iloprost but not with nifedipine.
CONCLUSION: Both iloprost and nifedipine are beneficial in the treatment of
Raynaud's phenomenon. With nifedipine, however, side effects are common. Short
term infusions of iloprost provide longlasting relief of symptoms, and side
effects occur only during the infusions and are dose dependent.

PMCID: PMC1835951
PMID: 2467711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Mar;120(3):257-65.

Metformin improves peripheral but not hepatic insulin action in obese patients
with type II diabetes.

Hother-Nielsen O(1), Schmitz O, Andersen PH, Beck-Nielsen H, Pedersen O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Aarhus Amtssygehus, Denmark.

Nine obese patients with Type II diabetes mellitus were examined in a
double-blind cross-over study. Metformin 0.5 g trice daily or placebo were given 
for 4 weeks. At the end of each period fasting and day-time postprandial values
of plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide and lactate were determined, and in vivo
insulin action was assessed using the euglycemic clamp in combination with
[3-3H]glucose tracer technique. Metformin treatment significantly reduced mean
day-time plasma glucose levels (10.2 +/- 1.2 vs 11.4 +/- 1.2 mmol/l, P less than 
0.01) without enhancing mean day-time plasma insulin (43 +/- 4 vs 50 +/- 7 mU/l, 
NS) or C-peptide levels (1.26 +/- 0.12 vs 1.38 +/- 0.18 nmol/l, NS). Fasting
plasma lactate was unchanged (1.57 +/- 0.16 vs 1.44 +/- 0.11 mmol/l, NS), whereas
mean day-time plasma lactate concentrations were slightly increased (1.78 +/-
0.11 vs 1.38 +/- 0.11 mmol/l, P less than 0.01). The clamp study revealed that
metformin treatment was associated with an enhanced insulin-mediated glucose
utilization (370 +/- 38 vs 313 +/- 33 mg.m-2.min-1, P less than 0.01), whereas
insulin-mediated suppression of hepatic glucose production was unchanged. Also
basal glucose clearance was improved (61.0 +/- 5.8 vs 50.6 +/- 2.8 ml.m-2.min-1, 
P less than 0.05), whereas basal hepatic glucose production was unchanged (81 +/-
6 vs 77 +/- 4 mg.m-2.min-1, NS).CONCLUSIONS: 1) Metformin treatment in obese Type
II diabetic patients reduces hyperglycemia without changing the insulin
secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2648723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Acta Med Port. 1989 Mar-Apr;2(2):73-6.

[Congenital cardiopathy and cerebral abscess].

[Article in Portuguese]

Paixão A, de Andrade FF, Sampayo F.

During 1986 the authors came across two cases of brain abscess among children
with congenital heart disease followed at the Pediatric Cardiology Service and
decided to evaluate their global experience on the subject. In a retrospective
study of 860 infants and children with cyanotic congenital heart disease and
final diagnosis, there were four cases complicated with brain abscess. The
following items were evaluated: prevalence of the complication, type of
congenital heart disease, date and age at the diagnosis of brain abscess,
diagnostic methods, neurosurgical treatment and results. The main findings were: 
all patients were above two years of age and had noncorrected cyanotic congenital
heart disease belonging to the classic high risk group; the first two cases had
been treated in other institutions and only scanty information was available; two
recent cases had early diagnosis on CAT scan followed by neurosurgical treatment.
All children survived.CONCLUSIONS: brain abscess is a rare but severe
complication occurring in patients with noncorrected cyanotic congenital heart
disease above two years of age; whenever prevention turns impossible, early
diagnosis and treatment provide good short term and long term results. A
multidisciplinar approach with full cooperation is advocated.

PMID: 2694794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Actas Urol Esp. 1989 Mar-Apr;13(2):94-5.

[Study of renal function after the administration of a low-osmolarity iodized
contrast medium. Prospective study].

[Article in Spanish]

Burgos FJ, Teruel JL, Herrero JM, Jiménez M, Marcen R, Ortuño J, Llorente MT.

We analysed the development of various kidney function parameters in 40 patients 
on whom an intravenous urography had been carried out with a non-ionic contrast
medium of low osmolarity (iohexol). No patient displayed prior renal
insufficiency (serum creatinine 0.4-2mg/dl). Twenty-four hours after injection of
the iodized contrast no significant variations in urea blood concentrations,
creatinine, sodium or uric acid appeared. As a result of the urography an
increase in urine osmolarity and a decrease in fractional sodium excretion took
place.IN CONCLUSION: in patients without renal insufficiency intravenous
urography with iohexol does not give rise to a significant alteration in the
renal excretory function.

PMID: 2728949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Aichi Gakuin Daigaku Shigakkai Shi. 1989 Mar;27(1):323-30.

[Strengthening for dental porcelain surface].

[Article in Japanese]

Araki A, Takehana S, Tsukamoto N, Hashimoto K, Matsuyama K, Sakuma K, Sakai K.

Although the metal crown is aesthetically improved when porcelain is fused to it,
a large number of different factors often cause the porcelain to break. Here we
report a method to prevent this from happening. As a hardening treatment for the 
porcelain surface, the Na-ions in the porcelain, which have a short radius, were 
replaced by K-ions having a long radius to strength the surface against
compressive forces.RESULTS: 1. The bending test showed that the strength of the
porcelain had increased from 20 to 38%. 2. The hardness test indicated that the
strength had increased from 23 to 24%. 3. The breaking test showed that although 
the strength of the porcelain had not increased to any great extent, the strength
of the veneer shell had increase by more than 30%. 4. The EPMA measurement showed
that ion replacement had penetrated to as much as 50 to 80 microns. 5. Clinical
tests indicate that even after 19 months, the surface of the porcelain remains
the same and that the condition is quite stable.

PMID: 2610307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):308-14.

Sleep apnea syndrome in chronic renal disease.

Kimmel PL(1), Miller G, Mendelson WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, George Washington University Medical Center, Washington, 
D.C. 20037.

PURPOSE: We performed this study in order to expand on an earlier report
indicating a high prevalence of the sleep apnea syndrome in male patients with
end-stage renal disease treated with hemodialysis and to determine whether
patients with chronic renal insufficiency (prior to the initiation of therapy for
end-stage renal disease) and female patients with end-stage renal disease treated
with hemodialysis were affected.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Polysomnography was performed in 26 male and female
patients with chronic renal insufficiency and end-stage renal disease treated
with hemodialysis who were not receiving testosterone. They included 22 whose
histories were suggestive of sleep apnea ("symptomatic") and four whose histories
were not ("asymptomatic").
RESULTS: Sixteen of the symptomatic (73 percent) and none of the asymptomatic
patients were found to have clinically significant sleep apnea syndrome (p less
than 0.02). Both female patients and patients with chronic renal insufficiency
had sleep apnea. In nine of these 16 cases, the disorder was primarily of the
obstructive type.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary data raise the possibility of an association of
chronic renal disease and the sleep apnea syndrome, and suggest that some of the 
daytime sleepiness and disturbed nocturnal sleep in such patients may be related 
to sleep apnea. They also indicate that questioning patients with chronic renal
disease and symptoms suggestive of a sleep disorder is useful in determining who 
are at high risk for the sleep apnea syndrome. Further study is required to
establish a causal relationship between chronic renal disease and the sleep apnea
syndrome, and to determine the prevalence of the latter in patients with
end-stage renal disease.

PMID: 2919612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):303-7.

Prevalence of granular lymphocyte proliferation in patients with rheumatoid
arthritis and neutropenia.

Saway PA(1), Prasthofer EF, Barton JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Multipurpose Arthritis Center, University of Alabama,
Birmingham.

PURPOSE: Granular lymphocyte proliferation and neutropenia with or without
splenomegaly occurs with unknown frequency in rheumatoid arthritis. We decided to
evaluate the prevalence of Felty's syndrome and granular lymphocyte proliferation
among patients with rheumatoid arthritis and to determine the fraction of
patients with granular lymphocyte proliferation who also had rheumatoid
arthritis.
PATIENTS, METHODS, AND RESULTS: We retrospectively analyzed 1,053 cases of
rheumatoid arthritis and 13,505 marrow examination reports for the decade 1978 to
1987. Among patients with Felty's syndrome rheumatoid arthritis with
neutropenia/leukopenia, and rheumatoid arthritis with splenomegaly, we identified
18 patients with neutropenia as a manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis. We also 
identified marrow examinations in 150 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Using
blood counts, microscopy of marrow, and surface antigen analysis of mononuclear
cells, we determined that 12 patients had typical Felty's syndrome and six had
granular lymphocyte proliferation, representing prevalences of 1.1 percent and
0.6 percent, respectively. No patient had granular lymphocyte proliferation
without neutropenia.
CONCLUSION: Granular lymphocyte proliferation and neutropenia with or without
splenomegaly in rheumatoid arthritis commonly resembles typical Felty's syndrome.
Further, the six patients with granular lymphocyte proliferation represent 20
percent of our institution's patients with granular lymphocyte proliferation,
supporting the previously described common association of this disorder with
rheumatoid arthritis. The relatively large fraction of deaths (due to malignancy 
and infection) among the patients with typical Felty's syndrome suggests that
their mean survival may be comparatively less than in those with granular
lymphocyte proliferation.

PMID: 2919611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):289-96.

Thyroid hormone resistance in a large kindred: physiologic, biochemical,
pharmacologic, and neuropsychologic studies.

Smallridge RC(1), Parker RA, Wiggs EA, Rajagopal KR, Fein HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, D.C.
20307-5100.

Erratum in
    Am J Med 1989 May;86(5):637.

PURPOSE: Thyroid hormone resistance affects the pituitary gland and a variety of 
other tissues. We studied a large kindred with this disorder and measured a
number of clinical markers of tissue metabolism to determine if these markers
were useful in elucidating the sites and degree of resistance.
PATIENTS: A kindred of 89 persons in four generations was identified; 44 had
thyroid function tests, and 14 (five to 67 years old) were found to have thyroid 
hormone resistance.
RESULTS: The inheritance pattern was autosomal dominant, with no common HLA
haplotype. Physiologic measurements in five affected members showed marked
heterogeneity. Four patients had normal baseline cardiac contractility, but only 
two experienced a shortening of their QKd interval into the hyperthyroid range
with triiodothyronine (T3) therapy. Intrathyroidal 127I content was increased in 
two patients and was normal in two. Bone mineral content was normal in two men,
but two women had marked osteopenia. The propositus, hypothyroid after
inappropriate 131I therapy, had a hypothyroid ventilatory response to
hypercapnea. This response became low normal during T3 (100 micrograms/day)
administration but not during long-term thyroxine (T4) (300 micrograms/day)
administration. Three other patients had values within normal limits and one had 
a hyperthyroid ventilatory response. Peripheral biochemical markers of thyroid
hormone action were measured in 13 affected and 19 unaffected family members. Sex
hormone-binding globulin was increased in zero of 13 affected patients (versus 19
of 20 hyperthyroid, chi 2:p less than 0.001); ferritin was elevated in two of 13 
patients (versus 11 of 20 hyperthyroid, p less than 0.02); angiotensin converting
enzyme activity was increased in one of 13 patients (versus 12 of 20
hyperthyroid, p less than 0.025). The eldest patient had marked cardiac
sensitivity despite normal biochemical markers. We attempted to suppress the
integrated thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) response to thyrotropin-releasing
hormone (TRH) using T3 (72 and 100 percent suppression in two patients), dopamine
(40 percent suppression in one), 3,5,3'-triiodothyroacetic acid (TRIAC) (94
percent suppression in one), and verapamil (10 percent and 40 percent suppression
in two). Neuropsychologic function was studied in 14 individuals (11 affected,
three unaffected). Although mild impairments were detected, they were not
specific for thyroid hormone resistance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2919610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):278-81.

Screening for hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer: a study of 22 kindreds 
in The Netherlands.

Vasen HF(1), den Hartog Jager FC, Menko FH, Nagengast FM.

Author information: 
(1)Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumors, University Hospital, Leiden,
The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Identification of the hereditary non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma
syndrome (HNPCC) is a basis for secondary prevention. The objectives of this
study are to investigate the natural history of HNPCC and to assess the effect of
screening.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Screening for colorectal carcinoma was performed in 22
HNPCC families (colonoscopy or double-contrast barium enema and sigmoidoscopy).
The patients were subdivided into two groups. Group A comprised patients with
colorectal cancer who were referred because they were symptomatic. Group B
included family members of these patients who were found to have a colorectal
lesion by screening. We compared these groups with respect to the stage of tumor 
growth.
RESULTS: Histologic examination of the tumors in Group A (87 patients) revealed
Dukes A carcinomas in six patients, Dukes B carcinomas in 37, Dukes C carcinomas 
in 21, and Dukes D carcinomas in 10 patients (classification unknown in 13
patients). In Group B (20 patients), adenoma was found in 14 and carcinoma in six
patients (Dukes A in two and Dukes B in four patients). A total of 93 patients,
including those whose tumors were detected by screening, had a colorectal
carcinoma. The age at diagnosis ranged from 24 to 81 years (mean age: 46 years). 
The location of the colonic tumors was proximal in 60 percent. Multiple primary
tumors were found in 26 percent.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that screening leads to the early detection of 
colorectal carcinomas and adenomas in asymptomatic members of HNPCC families.
Screening should be initiated at the age of 20 and continued during the life of
the individual. Careful examination of the right colon is indicated because of
the frequent occurrence of tumors in the proximal colon. A subtotal colectomy is 
indicated at the time of diagnosis of the initial colon cancer because of the
risk of multiple primary tumors.

PMID: 2919609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):267-74.

Spectrum of dysautonomia in mitral valvular prolapse.

Taylor AA(1), Davies AO, Mares A, Raschko J, Pool JL, Nelson EB, Mitchell JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Hypertension-Clinical Pharmacology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030.

PURPOSE: Symptoms suggesting altered autonomic regulation of cardiovascular
function have been noted in some patients with mitral valvular prolapse (MVP) but
may also occur in patients with other disorders. We evaluated cardiovascular
responses to autonomic stimuli in 118 patients with symptoms of dysautonomia, 78 
of whom had MVP, and 40 of whom did not, to determine if unique patterns of these
responses distinguished patients in one symptomatic subgroup from another.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The responses of patients to standing, quantitated Valsalva
maneuver, facial immersion in ice water, and administration of isoproterenol,
phenylephrine, and tyramine were compared with those in 12 asymptomatic patients 
with MVP and 23 normal volunteers.
RESULTS: Constitutional, cardiovascular, and neuropsychiatric symptoms occurred
with similar frequency in the two symptomatic patient groups. The most common
pattern of abnormal responses in symptomatic patients with or without MVP was (1)
an increased heart rate and elevated plasma norepinephrine levels while supine
and then while standing quietly for five minutes, (2) an exaggerated increase in 
heart rate during phase II of Valsalva, (3) a diminished bradycardic response
during phase IV of Valsalva, and (4) an exaggerated heart rate response to
administration of isoproterenol. The increased heart rate during Valsalva, but
not the exaggerated sensitivity to isoproterenol, was correlated with the
magnitude of the chronotropic response to standing only in symptomatic patients
with MVP. Exaggerated hypertensive overshoot during phase IV of Valsalva was
observed in only a few symptomatic patients. No consistent pattern of these
abnormalities, however, was noted in any of the patient subgroups. Hemodynamic
responses to autonomic stimuli in asymptomatic MVP patients were generally
indistinguishable from those observed in normal subjects.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that abnormal cardiovascular responses to
autonomic stimuli may occur in any patient with symptoms of dysautonomia
regardless of the presence or absence of MVP and that the pattern of these
abnormal responses may be diverse. It is therefore important to characterize the 
pattern of altered autonomic regulation of cardiovascular function in each
patient when considering mechanistic implications or making therapeutic decisions
about these patients.

PMID: 2919608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):262-6.

Common symptoms in ambulatory care: incidence, evaluation, therapy, and outcome.

Kroenke K(1), Mangelsdorff AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 May 1;134(9 Pt 1):783-5.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: Many symptoms in outpatient practice are poorly
understood. To determine the incidence, diagnostic findings, and outcome of 14
common symptoms, we reviewed the records of 1,000 patients followed by house
staff in an internal medicine clinic over a three-year period. The following data
were abstracted for each symptom: patient characteristics, symptom duration,
evaluation, suspected etiology of the symptom, treatment prescribed, and outcome 
of the symptom. Cost estimates for diagnostic evaluation were calculated by means
of the schedule of prevailing rates for Texas employed by the Civilian Health and
Medical Program of the Uniformed Services for physician reimbursement.
RESULTS: A total of 567 new complaints of chest pain, fatigue, dizziness,
headache, edema, back pain, dyspnea, insomnia, abdominal pain, numbness,
impotence, weight loss, cough, and constipation were noted, with 38 percent of
the patients reporting at least one symptom. Although diagnostic testing was
performed in more than two thirds of the cases, an organic etiology was
demonstrated in only 16 percent. The cost of discovering an organic diagnosis was
high, particularly for certain symptoms, such as headache ($7,778) and back pain 
($7,263). Treatment was provided for only 55 percent of the symptoms and was
often ineffective. Where outcome was documented, 164 (53 percent) of 307 symptoms
improved. Three favorable prognostic factors were an organic etiology (p =
0.006), a symptom duration of less than four months (p = 0.009), and a history of
two or fewer symptoms (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The classification, evaluation, and management of common symptoms
need to be refined. Diagnostic strategies emphasizing organic causes may be
inadequate.

PMID: 2919607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):282-8.

Ethanol reduces bone formation and may cause osteoporosis.

Diamond T(1), Stiel D, Lunzer M, Wilkinson M, Posen S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal North Shore Hospital, St. Leonards, Sydney,
Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The etiology of ethanol-associated osteopenia is not fully
understood. In order to define the role of ethanol in the pathogenesis of hepatic
osteodystrophy, we compared two groups of alcoholic patients with histologically 
established alcoholic liver disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-eight patients currently drinking ethanol
("drinkers") and 12 claiming not to have consumed any ethanol for at least six
months ("abstainers") were enrolled in the study. In addition, 35 non-alcoholic
control subjects without clinical or biochemical evidence of liver disease were
also studied. Bone mineral density and various biochemical and hormonal values
were measured in each subject; iliac crest biopsies were taken under local
anesthesia in the patients and under general anesthesia in the control subjects.
RESULTS: Forearm bone mineral densities, spinal bone mineral densities, and iliac
crest cancellous bone areas were significantly lower in the alcoholic patients
compared with control subjects (p less than 0.01 for all measurements), but these
values did not differ between the drinkers and the abstainers. The drinkers,
however, had significantly less osteoblastic activity than the abstainers, as
assessed by dynamic bone histomorphometry (p less than 0.001). Serum bone
Gla-protein concentrations were higher in the abstainers than in the drinkers (p 
less than 0.001). No differences were seen relating to histologic parameters of
bone resorption, although the alcoholic patients who had lower serum free
testosterone concentrations than the control subjects also had higher urinary
hydroxyproline excretion rates.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that ethanol may be responsible for osteoblastic
dysfunction resulting in diminished bone formation and reduced bone
mineralization.

PMID: 2784031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):275-7.

Reassessment of the association between gastrointestinal arteriovenous
malformations and aortic stenosis.

Mehta PM(1), Heinsimer JA, Bryg RJ, Jaszewski R, Wynne J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harper Hospital, Detroit, Michigan 48201.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: The purported association between aortic
stenosis and gastrointestinal arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) has not been
rigorously evaluated. The diagnosis of aortic stenosis in most the prior studies 
has been based on clinical examination. We therefore utilized two-dimensional and
Doppler echocardiography to document the presence or absence of aortic stenosis
in 29 men with gastrointestinal AVMs documented by endoscopy.
RESULTS: Of the 29 patients studied, 22 (76 percent) had ejection systolic
murmurs and 18 (62 percent) had echocardiographic evidence of aortic sclerosis.
However, none of the patients had any evidence of aortic stenosis as assessed by 
Doppler echocardiography.
CONCLUSION: Although previous case reports and retrospective studies have
suggested an association between gastrointestinal AVMs and aortic stenosis, our
study does not support this association and suggests the need for a prospective
trial.

PMID: 2784030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Am J Med. 1989 Mar;86(3):297-302.

Should women be tested for gonococcal infection of the cervix during routine
gynecologic visits? An economic appraisal.

Phillips RS(1), Safran C, Aronson MD, Taylor WC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215.

PURPOSE, PATIENTS, AND METHODS: We used decision analysis to calculate the
economic implications of routine testing for Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection of
the cervix. This study compared performing endocervical cultures in all women
seeking routine gynecologic care to a no-test strategy. Estimates derived from
the medical literature were varied in a sensitivity analysis, and a Monte Carlo
technique was used to incorporate the estimates of experts into the analysis.
RESULTS: We found that routinely testing for gonorrhea reduced overall medical
costs when the prevalence of infection exceeded 1.5 percent. This result was most
sensitive to variation in the cost of the culture and the assumption that
treatment prevents adverse sequelae. Reducing the estimated cost of the culture
from $9 to $5 decreased the threshold prevalence from 1.5 to 0.8 percent. When we
considered the variation in estimates of experts, the threshold prevalence
increased from 1.5 to 2.1 percent.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that a strategy of testing and treating selected women
with risk factors for gonorrhea will not only reduce the likelihood of the
development of serious adverse sequelae but will also result in a reduction of
medical costs.

PMID: 2493192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1989 Mar;139(3):702-9.

The effect of inhaled naloxone on resting bronchial tone and exercise-induced
asthma.

Popa V(1), Rients P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento 95823.

We wanted to determine whether 10 mg naloxone inhaled quantitatively could
modulate the resting bronchial tone and respiratory response in exercise-induced 
asthma (EIA). In 11 asthmatic subjects, we measured specific airway conductance
(SGaw) and forced expiratory flow (FEF) before and after the inhalation of
naloxone or saline. In another 10 asthmatic subjects, we measured SGaw, FEF, and 
the ventilatory gas exchange, heart rate, and blood pressure responses produced
by a treadmill exercise during 3 separate days: without any pretreatment (Day 1) 
or preceded by the inhalation of either 10 mg naloxone (Day 2) or saline (Day 3).
We found that after 10 mg inhaled naloxone only one of 11 subjects
bronchodilated, displaying an isolated, reproducible delta SGaw greater than 40% 
at 30 and 60 min. In the EIA protocol, the cardiopulmonary responses during
exercise remained similar on all experimental days, but in seven of 10 subjects
(all with %FEV1/FVC greater than or equal to 70% delta SGaw was -60 +/- 11%, + 1 
+/- 40%, and -52 +/- 7% during no treatment, naloxone, and saline days,
respectively (p less than 0.05). FEF changes were comparable on all days (p
greater than 0.05).IN CONCLUSION: (1) consistent with the general role of
endogenous opioids, these neurotransmitter/neuromodulators can modulate a
stress-related bronchoconstrictor response (EIA), but only very seldom the
resting bronchial tone. (2) Naloxone does not blunt EIA through a decrease in the
asthmogenic stimulus (i.e., ventilation) or airway caliber change, but presumably
through competition with the endogenous opioids released during exercise.

PMID: 2923371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Anaesthesist. 1989 Mar;38(3):128-35.

[Intra- and postoperative complications in infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysms].

[Article in German]

Hartung HJ(1), Lenk U.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anaesthesiologie und Reanimation, Fakultät für Klinische Medizin
Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg.

Patients scheduled for operation of an abdominal aortic aneurysm are a challenge 
to the anesthesiologist due to multiple coexisting diseases and serious
intraoperative hemodynamic changes caused by cross-clamping. The aim of this
study was to investigate the incidence of intra- and postoperative complications 
and to analyze the coexisting diseases in order to estimate complications and
risks.PATIENTS AND METHOD: The charts of 72 patients scheduled for resection of
an abdominal aortic aneurysm in 1984 and 1985 were retrospectively analysed. The 
patients are divided into 6 groups: E: elective operation; K: without pulmonary
catheterization; N: emergency operation; R: ruptured aneurysm; D: acute
dissection. The statistical analysis was performed by chi-square test.
RESULTS: Patients monitored by Swan-Ganz catheter suffered more frequently from
chronic obstructive or restrictive pulmonary diseases and coronary heart disease 
or cardiac failure. INTRAOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS: Emergency patients showed more 
than twice as many intraoperative cardiovascular complications than scheduled
patients; 3 fatal cases were observed in this group. Renal complications (anuria)
occurred in 2% during elective operations and in 30% during emergency operations.
POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS: Most of the postoperative complications - 75% - were
associated with the cardiovascular system, followed by disturbances of gas
exchange and hypoxemia. Two patients in group E had a short-lasting renal
insufficiency; 1 patient died of myocardial infarction 3 weeks postoperatively.
Emergency procedures were much more risky, with a 90% incidence of cardiovascular
complications; 4 patients died within 5 days, 1 other after 1 week. Patients
monitored by Swan-Ganz catheter showed more arrhythmias and hypotension than the 
others. Atelectasis was seen on X-rays in 46% of emergency patients, 35% of group
P, and 2.6% of group K.
CONCLUSIONS: Retrospective studies of special and high-risk patients are very
useful in assessing the individual clinical standard, despite problems with data 
acquisition. This study permitted the assessment of perioperative complications
and risks in these patients.

PMID: 2719225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Andrologia. 1989 Mar-Apr;21(2):103-12.

Clinical and physical evaluation of the infertile male: testicular measurement or
orchidometry.

Steeno OP.

Author information: 
School voor Maatschappelyke Gezondheidszorg, Afdeling Jeugdgezondheiszorg en
Kliniek voor Inwendige Geneeskunde, Endocrinologie, Andrologie en, Leuven,
Belgium.

SUMMARY: For the quantitative determination of the testicular size or volume, two
groups of apparatus are available: on the one hand, model testes, which are
extremely valuable in longitudinal and cross-sectional studies during the period 
of pubescence, and on the other hand, measuring devices, with which the
testicular dimensions can be specified. The latter instruments are helpful
chiefly during the adolescent years and the diagnosis of problems surrounding
fertility. The testicular volume can be calculated subsequently from the specific
testicular measurements. The formula, for computing the volume of an ellipsoid,
seems to be the most suitable for this purpose. Appliances also have been
developed, which allow the largest (longitudinal) dimension (in mm) and the
testicular volume (in cm3) to be read off simultaneously. A tonometer can be
useful to quantitatively estimate the testicular consistency, which is a
parameter of the testicular integrity at the level of tubular function
(spermatozoa production).

PMID: 2653111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Ann Gastroenterol Hepatol (Paris). 1989 Mar-Apr;25(2):41-5.

[Cyclic enteral nutrition and Crohn's disease localized in the distal ileum
and/or the colon. Trial of a dietary polymer mixture].

[Article in French]

Gineston JL(1), Davion T, Favi M.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Hépato-Gastroentérologie, Centre Hospitalier et Universitaire, Amiens.

Cyclic enteral nutrition (CEN) is a technique regularly used during the active
phases of CDIC. Elemental or semi-elemental diets are usually employed. We tested
the tolerance and efficacy of a ternary polymeric diet for nightly administration
on a discontinuous basis (Polydiet). CEN was given to 12 malnourished patients
with active CDIC of moderate intensity (6-9 Harvey Bradshaw Index).
Corticosteroid therapy with prednisolone (0.3 to 0.9 mg/kg) was given in
combination in 6 patients throughout the course of CEN. Duration of CEN, energy
and protein intake, age, sex, degree of activity of CDIC and lesional extent, and
percentage of malnutrition were comparable in both groups of patients. In all
cases, clinical tolerance was remarkable allowing therapy to be maintained. No
significant change in laboratory test values of hepatic or renal functions or of 
plasma lipids occurred. A positive significant variation was noted in both groups
for the following parameters: body weight (p less than 0.01); muscle
circumference (p less than 0.001); serum albumin (p less than 0.001), transferrin
(p less than 0.01), clinical score (p less than 0.001). Triceps skin fold and
lymphocyte count did not vary significantly. Corticosteroid therapy at the above 
dosage did not alter these parameters. Positive maintenance of nitrogen balance
was obtained in all cases at the end of the first week of CEN.CONCLUSION: With
equivalent nutritional value and for a lower cost, polymeric diets could be used 
more frequently in the treatment of CDIC. Tolerance and correction of nutritional
disorders appear comparable to elemental products if lesions affect only the
distal small intestine and/or colon.

PMID: 2499243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):400-3.

Childhood cancer survivors' knowledge of their diagnosis and treatment.

Byrne J(1), Lewis S, Halamek L, Connelly RR, Mulvihill JJ.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

PURPOSE: To determine what factors correlated with the failure of the survivors
of childhood cancer to acknowledge their diagnosis.
STUDY DESIGN: A follow-up interview with 1928 adults who survived childhood
cancer to evaluate the late effects of cancer and its treatment. Cancer was
diagnosed in these survivors between 1945 and 1974 before they reached age 20:
subjects had to have survived for at least 5 years and to have reached age 21.
RESULTS: Fourteen percent of the survivors of malignancies at sites other than
the central nervous system said that they had not had cancer. This proportion
differed according to the survivors' race, the type of tumor and its treatment,
the level of their father's education, the year of diagnosis, and the center
where the tumor was diagnosed. Among survivors who knew that they had cancer
previously, however, most (81%) correctly identified the type of treatment they
had received.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians should be aware that a substantial proportion of
long-term survivors of childhood cancer may not reveal their past history of
cancer and its treatment, and possible clues to the cause of the presenting
condition may thus be missed.

PMID: 2916808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):365-8.

Zidovudine for thrombocytopenic purpura related to human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) infection.

Oksenhendler E(1), Bierling P, Ferchal F, Clauvel JP, Seligmann M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether zidovudine is effective in increasing the
platelet count in patients with thrombocytopenic purpura related to human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized controlled trial with two consecutive regimens.
SETTING: Immunopathology and hematology clinics at two general hospitals.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 34 patients infected with HIV who had
thrombocytopenic purpura (platelets less than 50 x 10(9)/L) without visceral
bleeding. Twenty-nine patients completed the study; one patient was removed
because of drug toxicity.
INTERVENTIONS: Zidovudine for 12 weeks, 250 mg every 6 hours orally in 10
patients; and 500 mg every 8 hours orally in 24 patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Three of ten patients receiving 250 mg every 6
hours and 12 of 24 patients receiving 500 mg every 8 hours had a persistent
increase in their platelet counts. In both groups the mean value of the platelet 
count increased significantly by week 12; from 28 x 10(9)/L +/- 12 (SD) to 57 x
10(9)/L +/- 36 in the first group and from 20 x 10(9)/L +/- 13 to 77 x 10(9)/L
+/- 42 in the second group (P less than 0.05 and P less than 0.01, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Zidovudine is effective on platelet counts in some patients with
HIV-related thrombocytopenia. These results suggest that HIV itself may play a
direct or indirect role in the pathogenesis of this disorder.

PMID: 2916807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):369-72.

Coronary artery bypass surgery in patients on chronic hemodialysis. A
case-control study.

Deutsch E(1), Bernstein RC, Addonizio P, Kussmaul WG 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1989 May 1;110(9):752.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the morbidity and mortality of cardiac
catheterization and coronary artery bypass surgery in patients on chronic
hemodialysis.
DESIGN: Retrospective case-control study.
SETTING: A referral-based university hospital.
PATIENTS: Sixteen consecutive patients on chronic hemodialysis who had
catheterization and bypass surgery: 30 controls matched for age, sex, year of
operation, severity of coronary disease, left ventricular function, hypertension,
diabetes, and urgency of surgery: and 34 consecutive controls having bypass
surgery.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: No major complications of catheterization
occurred. Of 16 patients on dialysis, 7 had urgent surgery within 24 hours of
catheterization. One patient on dialysis and 3 consecutive controls died, but
none of the matched controls died. Postoperative morbidity was increased in the
hemodialysis group as measured by the duration of mechanical ventilation (4.7 +/-
2.3 compared with 1.5 +/- 0.8 days in matched controls [mean +/- SE]), the
duration of hemodynamic support (4.2 +/- 2.3 compared with 0.8 +/- 0.2 days), the
length of stay in the intensive care unit (6.4 +/- 2.4 compared with 2.8 +/- 0.9 
days), and the length of postoperative stay in the hospital (15.4 +/- 2.1
compared with 10.8 +/- 1.1 days) (all P less than 0.05). Four intraoperative
myocardial infarctions occurred in patients on dialysis compared with two
patients in the case-matched controls. Differences in morbidity between the two
control groups were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Morbidity is increased in patients on hemodialysis having coronary
artery bypass surgery compared with controls matched for severity of coronary
disease; however, the outcome in all but one patient on dialysis was good. Bypass
surgery is an acceptable treatment for patients on dialysis with advanced
coronary artery disease. Because urgent surgery is often needed in these
patients, earlier evaluation of the need for revascularization may improve
clinical results.

PMID: 2783839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):357-64.

Effects of bacterially synthesized recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor in patients with advanced malignancy.

Lieschke GJ(1), Maher D, Cebon J, O'Connor M, Green M, Sheridan W, Boyd A,
Rallings M, Bonnem E, Metcalf D, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Victoria,
Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To define the clinical and hematologic effects of subcutaneously
administered bacterially synthesized recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF).
DESIGN: Single arm nonrandomized dose escalation study.
PATIENTS: Twenty-one patients with advanced malignancy who were not receiving
concurrent myelosuppressive therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Subcutaneous administration of rhGM-CSF by once-daily injection to
groups of two to four patients at doses of 0.3 to 30 micrograms/kg body weight.d 
for 10 consecutive days. Some patients received a second 10-day period of daily
rhGM-CSF treatment after a 10-day nontreatment interval followed by alternate-day
treatment. Clinical status and hematologic values were monitored frequently.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All doses of rhGM-CSF caused an immediate
transient fall of 84% to 99% in circulating neutrophils, eosinophils, and
monocytes. Continued daily dosing caused a leukocytosis of up to 10-fold with
increases in numbers of circulating neutrophils, eosinophils, monocytes, and
lymphocytes. There appeared to be a plateau in the increase in neutrophils in the
dose range 3 to 15 micrograms/kg.d. Marrow aspirates showed increased proportions
of promyelocytes and myelocytes. Alternate-day injection of 15 micrograms/kg
maintained a leukocytosis. At doses up to 15 micrograms/kg.d, rhGM-CSF was well
tolerated but adverse effects included bone pains, myalgias, rashes, and liver
dysfunction. At doses exceeding 15 micrograms/kg.d, pericarditis was a
dose-limiting toxicity. Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura was reactivated by
rhGM-CSF in one patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Bacterially synthesized rhGM-CSF induces a leukocytosis in the dose 
range of 3 to 15 micrograms/kg.d. These doses are appropriate for phase II
studies.

PMID: 2644886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):386-99.

The polycystic ovary syndrome: pathogenesis and treatment.

Barnes R(1), Rosenfield RL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Chicago, Pritzker School of Medicine, Illinois.

PURPOSE: To propose a theory for the pathogenesis of the polycystic ovary
syndrome that explains the endocrinologic abnormalities of the syndrome and
provides a rational approach to therapy.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: An English-language literature search using MEDLINE (1975 to
1988) and extensive bibliographic reviews of identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: We reviewed the literature and selected 169 articles considered 
most relevant for the definition of the endocrinologic abnormalities, elucidation
of pathogenic mechanisms, or delineation of therapeutic interventions.
DATA EXTRACTION: The authors independently assessed study quality and data
concerning endocrinologic abnormalities, pathogenic mechanisms, and therapy of
the polycystic ovary syndrome.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: The polycystic ovary syndrome may be best defined as
functional, gonadotropin-dependent ovarian hyperandrogenism. The polycystic ovary
syndrome results when a primary defect increases one of three variables: the
ratio of the serum concentrations of luteinizing hormone to follicle stimulating 
hormone, the ratio of the intraovarian concentrations of androgen to estrogen, or
follicular atresia. An increase in one of these variables can then induce
successive abnormalities in one or more of the remaining two variables in a
to-and-fro manner.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence suggests that several causes exist, each of which can
produce the clinical syndrome by a to-and-fro interaction among pathogenic
mechanisms. Treatment objectives for the syndrome include amelioration of
hirsutism, induction of ovulation, and weight reduction.

PMID: 2492787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):353-6.

Methotrexate induces clinical and histologic remission in patients with
refractory inflammatory bowel disease.

Kozarek RA(1), Patterson DJ, Gelfand MD, Botoman VA, Ball TJ, Wilske KR.

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Mason Clinic, Seattle, Washington.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):261.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether methotrexate has anti-inflammatory activity
in refractory inflammatory bowel disease.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, open-label, preliminary trial of methotrexate along with
standard medications for 12 weeks.
SETTING: Referral-based gastroenterology practice.
PATIENTS: Twenty-one patients with refractory inflammatory bowel disease (14,
Crohn disease; 7, chronic ulcerative colitis); 17 taking variable doses of
corticosteroids and 14 on sulfasalazine or metronidazole. Of the 21 patients, 10 
had previously failed azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine trials.
INTERVENTIONS: Sulfasalazine and metronidazole were continued and prednisone dose
was tapered according to clinical response. Methotrexate was given as a 25-mg
intramuscular injection weekly for 12 weeks, then switched to a tapering oral
dose if a clinical and objective improvement was noted.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Sixteen of twenty-one patients (11 of 14 patients 
with Crohn disease, 5 of 7 patients with chronic ulcerative colitis) had an
objective response as measured by disease activity indices (modified Crohn's
Disease Activity Index, 13.3 to 5.4 [P = 0.0001], Ulcerative Colitis Activity
Index, 13.3 to 6.3 [P = 0.007]). Prednisone dosage decreased from 21.4 mg +/- 5.6
(SEM) to 5.5 mg +/- 2.0; P = 0.006 and 38.6 mg +/- 6.35 to 12.9 mg +/- 3.4; P =
0.01, respectively. Five patients with Crohn colitis had colonoscopic healing and
4 had normal histology at 12 weeks. In contrast, none of the 7 patients with
ulcerative colitis had normal flexible sigmoidoscopies, despite histologic
improvement in 5. Side effects included mild rises in transaminase levels in 2
patients, transient leukopenia in 1, self-limited diarrhea and nausea in 2
patients, and 1 case each of brittle nails and atypical pneumonitis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this pilot study is encouraging, further work is needed
before methotrexate can be recommended for inflammatory bowel disease.

PMID: 2492786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 1;110(5):346-52.

Can the hypotriglyceridemic effect of fish oil concentrate be sustained?

Schectman G(1), Kaul S, Cherayil GD, Lee M, Kissebah A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether high doses of fish oil concentrate followed
by low-dose maintenance therapy can sustain the initial plasma triglyceride
reductions.
DESIGN: Before-and-after trial with 3-month treatment periods.
SETTING: Outpatient lipid clinic at a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Sixteen patients with hypertriglyceridemia recruited from the General
Internal Medicine Clinics. Five had concomitant hypercholesterolemia (type IIb).
INTERVENTION: Fish oil supplementation at two doses. After basal measurements,
9.8 g/d omega-3 fatty acids were provided for study months 1 to 3, and 3.9 g/d
were provided for study months 4 to 6.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Blood was drawn monthly and plasma was analyzed
for levels of triglycerides, low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and
apolipoprotein B, high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and apolipoprotein
A1, and glucose and glycohemoglobin. During therapy with the higher dose, mean
plasma triglyceride levels were reduced from 3.65 +/- 0.35 mmol/L at baseline to 
1.85 +/- 0.20 mmol/L at 1 month, but increased by 30% to 2.40 +/- 0.30 mmol/L by 
the third month of therapy (P less than 0.05): this increase could not be
explained by changes in body weight or compliance. Plasma triglyceride levels
continued to increase with low-dose therapy and remained only 11% below baseline 
values by the sixth month of therapy (P = not significant). Although fish oil
therapy increased HDL cholesterol levels (+18% at high dose; 99% CI, 5% to 31%), 
favorable changes were not seen in LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, or
apolipoprotein A1 levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Fish oil concentrate at high doses followed by low-dose maintenance 
therapy cannot sustain the initial large plasma triglyceride reductions.
Moreover, the efficacy of the higher dose becomes less pronounced after the first
month of therapy. This reduced efficacy during prolonged therapy, and the lack of
beneficial effect on apolipoprotein and LDL cholesterol levels, may limit the
practical benefit of fish oil in the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia.

PMID: 2492785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Aust Clin Rev. 1989 Mar;8(32):242-6.

Survey of falls of inpatients at the Ryde Hospital in 1986.

Lake M(1), Biro G.

Author information: 
(1)Macquarie Area Health Service, Eastwood, New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: To outline the findings of one survey, and to raise some general
issues about falls.
METHOD: A retrospective survey of all recorded inpatient falls in 1986.
RESULTS: There were 74 falls recorded in 1986, which gave an incidence rate of
0.184 falls per hundred bed days. Due to the lack of data on falls from other
local hospitals, no meaningful comparison can be made. Not unexpectedly, the
elderly were at greatest risk of falling, and the most common type of fall was
from bed. Most falls caused no major injuries.

PMID: 2719607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Aust Clin Rev. 1989 Mar;8(32):223-8.

Results of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in adult patients managed in a teaching 
hospital: clinical outcome and implications.

Twidale N(1), Beltrame J, Tonkin A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact and clinical implications of therapeutic
strategies for managing sudden cardiac arrest in a teaching hospital.
METHOD: A prospective audit of the results of out-of-hospital and in-hospital
cardiac arrest.
RESULTS: Compared with other studies, our results for resuscitation of
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest were poor, only 5% of patients being discharged.
This probably relates to the inability to revert ventricular tachycardia or
ventricular fibrillation promptly by defibrillation. Improving access to
defibrillation at the scene of cardiac arrest could improve the results of
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. In contrast, among patients with in-hospital
cardiac arrest. In contrast, among patients with in-hospital cardiac arrest, 14% 
of patients in monitored wards, and 24% of patients in unmonitored wards, were
discharged (P less than 0.05). When cardiac arrest is not associated with acute
myocardial infarction, survivors require thorough investigation and treatment to 
prevent recurrence.

PMID: 2719604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Aust Clin Rev. 1989 Mar;8(32):217-20.

Audit of investigation and follow-up of patients with raised monoclonal proteins.

Young B(1), Gleeson M.

Author information: 
(1)Hunter Immunology Unit, Royal Newcastle Hospital, New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the adequacy of investigation and later review of patients
with serum monoclonal proteins detected in our laboratory.
METHOD: To review all monoclonal proteins detected and to search through the
laboratory computerized records for evidence of further investigation and later
review.
RESULTS: Nine per cent of monoclonal proteins detected were not followed up at
all. A urine examination to detect Bence-Jones protein was not requested in 12%
of those regularly followed up. The mean age of the patients studied was 69
years, but there were eight patients under 60 years who had multiple myeloma.

PMID: 2719603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Aust Clin Rev. 1989 Mar;8(32):211-6.

Residents' evaluation of a therapeutic community.

Gara A(1), Hutchinson V, Hafner RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dibden Research Unit, Flinders University, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine former residents' views of a therapeutic community and
factors associated with a good response to therapy.
METHOD: Retrospective, using a self-report questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of 51 contactable former residents, 32 completed the questionnaire.
Responses were generally very positive, although the best outcome was reported by
those who held a social-interpersonal rather than a biological view of
psychiatric disorder, and who scored close to normal on a measure of
intropunitiveness. Respondents emphasized the crucial role of feedback and
confrontation by staff and co-residents in changing their unhelpful behaviour and
attitudes, although a few thought that confrontations were too forceful. The mean
duration of psychiatric disorder (mainly substance abuse and personality
disorder) was more than 4.5 years. Many respondents emphasized the failure of
orthodox treatments to help them, adding that their disorders would probably have
continued indefinitely without treatment in a therapeutic community.

PMID: 2719602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1989 Mar;57(3):107-9.

[The problem of femoral neck fracture in multiple sclerosis].

[Article in German]

Kiessling WR(1), Maske B.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Multiple Sklerose und Amyotrophische Lateralsklerose, Schönmünzach.

CASE REPORT: In a female MS-patient with severe osteoporosis a fracture of the
femoral neck occurred while doing neurophysiological exercises. A lawsuit for
damages followed and ended in settlement. The risk of femoral fracture in MS and 
an expert report are discussed.

PMID: 2707714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. G Clin Med. 1989 Mar;70(3):195-201.

[Famotidine in the short and long term treatment of duodenal ulcer: clinical and 
physiopathologic study].

[Article in Italian]

Vio A, Pasqualetti P, Gottardello L, Grassi SA, Vianello F, Dal Santo L, Tessaro 
P, Di Mario F, Naccarato R.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of short and
long-term treatment with famotidine 40 mg/daily at bed time in duodenal ulcer
disease. 45 patients with endoscopically proven active duodenal ulcer undertaken 
the study. Endoscopic evaluations were performed at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months from 
the start of the study. The following parameters were evaluated: pepsinogen group
I and gastrin levels in serum, pH, acid and neutral glycoprotein,
N-acetylneuraminic acid, pepsin in gastric juice collected during the upper
gastrointestinal endoscopy. 6 weeks healing rate was 91.1%. After the third month
of follow-up 14.2% of the patients presented an endoscopical proven episode of
relapse. No relapses were observed at the end of the study (after 6 months of
treatment). Acid glycoprotein, N- acetylneuraminic acid and pepsin concentrations
significantly decreased after 6 weeks of treatment (p less than 0.0125, p less
than 0.025, p less than 0.005 respectively), while serum levels of pepsinogen
group I, gastrin and gastric pH increased (p less than 0.0005, p less than 0.005,
p less than 0.025). After 6 months period of therapy, a significant increase of
neutral glycoproteins (p less than 0.01) and a decrease of pepsin (p less than
0.005) and acid glycoproteins (p less than 0.01) was observed. On the contrary,
gastric N- acetylneuraminic acid, pH, serum gastrin and pepsinogen group I
presented the pre-trial values.IN CONCLUSION: 1) famotidine appears to be an
effective and safe therapy for duodenal ulcer treatment; 2) it seems to act not
only by inhibiting gastric acid secretion but also influencing some parameters
related to the gastric mucosal barrier.

PMID: 2759390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi. 1989 Mar;64(2):177-85.

[Study of microcirculatory changes in experimental dietary fatty liver].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohhara K.

Author information: 
3rd Department of Internal Medicine, Asahikawa Medical College, Japan.

Regional hepatic blood flow in SD rats with fatty liver was measured by
electrolytic regional blood flow meter (Biomedical Sci. Co. Ltd. model RBF-2) and
compared with areas of sinusoids histologically calculated by CONTRON MOP-AM
03.METHODS: SD male rats, weighing around 240 g, fed on the choline deficient
diet, were anaesthetized with ethyl ether and rough regional hepatic blood flow
were measured after 3, 5 and 7 weeks. Furthermore, after 15 min. from death, they
were measured (death regional flow) in order to determine the simple diffusion of
hydrogen gas in liver tissue. Real regional blood flow was got by subtraction of 
death regional flow from rough regional blood flow. The degree of fatty liver was
histologically divided into 3 groups, as it were, slight, moderate and severe.
The lipid was extracted from fatty liver in 3 groups using the combined liquids
of methanol and chloroform, and the weight of the lipid was measured to compare
with fatty changes. The area of sinusoids in fatty liver was analyzed from
microscopic pictures using CONTRON MOP-AM 03.
RESULTS: There was no difference of rough regional hepatic blood flow among 3
groups as shown Figure.: (table; see text) But the real regional blood flow was
decreased in the moderate or severe groups. And the lipid weights of the liver
tissues were increased according to severe fatty changes. The values of real
regional blood flow were well-correlated with decrease of the areas of sinusoids 
histologically analyzed. These facts suggested that fat vacuoles narrowed the
lumen of sinusoid and decreased the hepatic blood flow.

PMID: 2731912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Hua Xi Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 1989 Mar;20(1):112-4.

[Surgical treatment of differentiated thyroid carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu HZ.

This paper reports the results and experiences of 95 cases with differentiated
thyroid carcinoma managed by surgical treatment. Eighty-two patients were
followed up with an average time of 6.2 years, the longest was fifteen years and 
six months, 96% of patients were survival over 5 years. The factors influencing
prognosis are as follows: 1. Age: Elder predicts worse prognosis. 2.HISTOLOGY:
Papillary is better then follicular. 3. The stage of thyroid carcinoma: Bigger
mass, tumor cells spreading out of thyroid capsule with invasion of adjacent
tissues and regional lymph nodes, and intravascular tumor cell embolus almost
always shows higher recurrence and mortality. 4. Simple tumor removal before
admission gives no reasonable cure, but increasing risk of spreading as showed in
our cases. Therefore, we emphasize that thyroid carcinoma should be treated
primarily with radical operation. By our experience thyroid carcinoma should be
treated with lobectomy for affected site, excision of isthmus, and contralateral 
subtotal thyroidectomy. Because of the low grade malignancy in differentiated
thyroid carcinoma, modified neck dissection is the surgical procedure of choice. 
Patients undergoing such surgical procedure as stated above can be prevented from
sequelae.

PMID: 2793133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Int J Pancreatol. 1989 Mar;4(2):161-74.

Caerulein stimulates pancreatic secretory response in conscious newborn rats.

Papp M(1), Dreiling DA, Dobronyi I, Varga G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest.

The aim of our study was to measure age-dependent, caerulein-stimulated
pancreatic enzyme secretion of conscious CFY suckling rats without pancreatic
duct cannulation. Pancreatic secretory response was expressed as the decrease in 
specific enzyme (trypsin, amylase) activity compared to saline-injected control. 
The study was performed in three phases. In 10-d-old conscious newborn rats,
single 1 and 3 micrograms/kg sc doses of caerulein induced significant decreases 
in specific trypsin (42 and 47%) and amylase (34 and 33%) activity 15 min after
the caerulein injection; the same doses injected at 0 and 30 min evoked a similar
decrease 90 min after the first injection. The 0.5 microgram/kg dose was
ineffective. In 10-d-old anesthetized rats, the 90-min-decrease in total
pancreatic trypsin activity, induced by graded doses (1,3,10, and 30
micrograms/kg) of caerulein, was compared to the 90-min output of trypsin in
their bile-pancreatic juice. Each of the applied doses induced significant change
in the total trypsin activity both in the pancreas (-33-57%) and juice (+21 +/-
49%) and its decrease in the gland corresponded quantitatively well (r = 0.52; p 
less than 0.01) to the increase in the simultaneous 90-min trypsin output. The
age- and dose-dependent pancreatic response of 3-, 5-, 10-, and 20-d-old
conscious rats was investigated under the effect of 1,3,10, and 30 micrograms/kg 
sc doses of caerulein injected at 0 and 30 min. In 3-d-old rats, the 10 and 30
micrograms/kg and in 20-d-old rats, the 1 and 3 micrograms/kg doses were
effective, whereas in 5- and 10-d-old rats each caerulein dose applied evoked a
significant decrease in pancreatic-specific trypsin activity.CONCLUSION: The
pancreas of newborn rats is in vivo less sensitive to caerulein between postnatal
d 3 and 10 than in already weaned rats.

PMID: 2723466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Mar-Apr;4(2):121-6.

The teacher simulation exercise: changes in physician teaching emphasis and
strategy. The SGIM Task Force on the Medical Interview.

Rost K(1), Gordon GH.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Health Behavior Research, Washington University School of Medicine,
St. Louis, MO 63110.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of the study was to determine the effect of a faculty
development course in teaching medical interviewing on participants' ability to
provide effective feedback to interviewers.
DESIGN: The study used a non-concurrent control group design which randomized
subjects into two groups before the intervention. The two groups completed
different pre-tests; each group then completed the other group's pre-test as its 
post-test. The post-course scores of one group were compared with the pre-course 
scores of the other group to establish differences.
SETTING: The research was conducted at the 1985 faculty development course
sponsored by the SGIM Task Force on the Medical Interview.
PARTICIPANTS: 49 of 52 teachers of medical interviewing attending the course
completed the study.
INTERVENTION: The week-long intervention consisted of a variety of educational
activities which assisted the participants in defining and actively pursuing
their learning objectives in interviewing, teaching, and self-awareness.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In their assessment of two videotaped segments of 
initial medical visits, participants were more likely after the course to comment
on the interviewer's lack of attention to patient affect (69.0% versus 27.2%, p =
0.005 in one segment) and somewhat more likely to identify teaching strategies
that actively involved the interviewer (47.2% vs. 35.0%, p = 0.09 in one
segment). Both shifts were congruent with assessments made by course faculty.
CONCLUSIONS: Faculty development can influence teachers to recognize the need to 
provide feedback on skills that expert teachers would emphasize. The
non-concurrent control group design provides an innovative approach to common
constraints in evaluating faculty development courses.

PMID: 2709169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. J Gen Intern Med. 1989 Mar-Apr;4(2):83-9.

Are current therapies useful for the prevention of postherpetic neuralgia? A
critical analysis of the literature.

Schmader KE(1), Studenski S.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), Durham Veterans
Administration Medical Center, North Carolina.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether current therapies are useful in preventing 
postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) by analysis of study designs and pooled results.
DESIGN: Meta-analysis of all controlled studies investigating PHN prevention in
the immunocompetent host. Articles were identified through MEDLINE, Index Medicus
and bibliographic reviews of major texts and review articles. Studies meeting
eligibility criteria were independently assessed using explicit methodologic
criteria for validity and generalizability in clinical trials. Pooled analysis
was also performed where appropriate.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-one investigations met eligibility criteria
and primarily addressed the use of antiviral agents and corticosteroids. Among
studies with strong designs, no evidence of benefit was found for acyclovir or
corticosteroids. Pooled results showed no significant effect of acyclovir on the 
prevention of PHN (odds ratio 0.81, 95% confidence interval 0.56, 1.11). The
strongest studies that found potential efficacy in PHN prevention involved
adenosine monophosphate and idoxuridine in dimethyl sulfoxide, but problems with 
clinical application limit the use of these compounds. Outcome definition,
compliance assessment, power estimation, and method of randomization were
infrequently addressed aspects of design.
CONCLUSION: Currently there is no proven useful therapy for the prevention of
PHN. The benefits of acyclovir and corticosteroids are limited but key questions 
remain regarding these medications. A clear consensus definition of PHN is needed
to improve future investigations.

PMID: 2540301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Kokubyo Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Mar;56(1):24-37.

[Study on distribution form of mesiodistal crown diameter in large sample: Part
II].

[Article in Japanese]

Iida T, Soma K, Miura F, Sugiyama T.

The purpose of this research was to examine the distribution of the tooth size in
a large sample. The objective teeth were the left upper and lower fourteen teeth 
except the third molar. The tooth size of 1,000 dental casts from the Japanese
female orthodontic patients was measured. On each of them, a histogram and a set 
of statistics (mean, standard deviation, coefficient of variation, skewness,
kurtosis, Geary value) are given in order to examine the distribution. The
findings are as follows: 1) Each tooth may be classified into the following four 
types of distribution except the congenitally missing data. TYPE I: A normal
distribution was observed in the upper and lower central incisors, the lower
lateral incisor, the lower canine, the upper and lower first premolars, the upper
second premolar, the upper and lower first molars and the lower second molar.TYPE
II: A positively skewed distribution was observed in the lower second premolar.
TYPE III: A negatively skewed and leptokurtic distribution was observed in the
upper canine and the upper second molar. TYPE IV: An extremely negatively skewed 
and leptokurtic distribution was observed in upper lateral incisor. 2) With the
four teeth which were classified into TYPE II, TYPE III and TYPE IV, the
distribution of the lower second premolar was concluded to be of normal
distribution by logarithmic transformation. The distribution of the upper canine 
and the upper second molar was judged to be of lognormal distribution and the
upper lateral incisor also was judged to be of three parameter lognormal
distribution and four parameter lognormal distribution. 3) The distribution of
thirteen teeth except the upper lateral incisor was judged to be of normal
distribution, by considering the congenitally missing data and the outlier in
statistical data of the tooth.

PMID: 2746104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 Mar-Apr;15(2):207-8, 210.

Pain reduction during neonatal circumcision.

Marchette L, Main R, Redick E.

PURPOSE: To determine the effect of two comfort interventions during
unanesthesized circumcision on neonatal pain.
METHODOLOGY: Fifty-eight neonates were randomly assigned to one of three
intervention groups. Eighteen control infants received routine care, 15 infants
had music played, and 15 infants had a tape of intrauterine sounds played. During
circumcision, monitors measured cardiac rate, rhythm, blood pressure, and
transcutaneous oxygen. Pain was measured by analysis of videotaped facial
expressions using Izard's Maximally Discriminative Facial Movement Coding System 
(1983).
RESULTS: Mean heart rate was above normal limits during all steps of the
circumcision for the control group and during some of the steps for the other two
groups. Facial expressions analyzed showed all three groups had pain much more
than any other emotion during the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: The two interventions were unable to offset the effects of
circumcision pain.

PMID: 2704576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Respir Care. 1989 Mar;34(3):191-5.

Evaluation of mouth-to-mask ventilation devices.

Hess D, Ness C, Oppel A, Rhoads K.

A number of mouth-to-mask ventilation devices have become commercially available 
in the past several years. In this study, we compared the volumes delivered by
eight of these devices to the volumes delivered by mouth-to-mouth
ventilation.METHOD: Fourteen respiratory care practitioners participated in the
study. Ventilation was delivered to an adult resuscitation manikin. Each subject 
ventilated the manikin using mouth-to-mouth technique and each of the following
mouth-to-mask devices: Boehringer EVA, Hospitak, Hudson, Intertech Safe Response,
Laerdal Pocket Mask, Life Design Systems (LDS), Respironics SealEasy, and Vital
Signs. Evaluation periods of 1 minute were used, minute ventilation and
respiratory rate were measured, and tidal volume was calculated.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between the volumes delivered by the 
masks (p less than 0.001). The volumes delivered by each mask were less than
mouth-to-mouth volumes (p less than 0.05 in each case). The mean +/- SD
mouth-to-mouth volume was 1.04 +/- 0.32 L. The mean +/- SD volumes for each of
the devices was 0.54 +/- 0.34 L for the EVA, 0.77 +/- 0.21 L for the Hospitak,
0.51 +/- 0.26 L for the Hudson, 0.81 +/- 0.35 L for the Safe Response, 0.65 +/-
0.25 L for the Pocket Mask, 0.82 +/- 0.27 L for the LDS, 0.79 +/- 0.32 L for the 
SealEasy, and 0.76 +/- 0.21 L for the Vital Signs.
CONCLUSIONS: We found considerable variability between the volumes delivered with
commercially available mouth-to-mask ventilation devices. Although the volumes
delivered during mouth-to-mask technique were less than those delivered with
mouth-to-mouth technique, the volumes delivered by some of the mouth-to-mask
devices were large enough to allow them to be substituted for mouth-to-mouth
technique.

PMID: 10315772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Respir Care. 1989 Mar;34(3):185-90.

The effects of therapist-evaluation of orders and interaction with physicians on 
the appropriateness of respiratory care.

Hart SK, Dubbs W, Gil A, Myers-Judy M.

Because our Respiratory Care Department resources were overburdened and many
orders for medicated aerosol therapy (MAT) and lung hyperinflation therapy (LHT) 
seemed inappropriate, we developed ordering guidelines for MAT and LHT. We then
studied the effects on numbers of inappropriate treatments when
therapist-evaluators discussed questionable orders with physicians.METHODS: For 6
weeks, the physicians were divided into two groups, one interactive with
therapists, the other serving as controls. The physicians then switched groups
for a second 6-week period. Therapist-evaluators examined all orders for MAT and 
LHT and suggested therapy changes to interactive-group physicians who wrote
questionable orders; they did not discuss inappropriate orders with control-group
physicians. The percentages of inappropriate treatments ordered by both physician
groups were recorded, and the costs of inappropriate therapy were calculated.
After the 12-week study, the program continued, with evaluators interacting with 
all physicians when treatment was inappropriate.
RESULTS: Of treatments ordered by control-group physicians, 48% were
inappropriate. Of treatments ordered by physicians in the interactive groups, 35%
were inappropriate. Inappropriate treatments cost $15,960 in labor and supplies
and required 3.6 full-time technicians. The cost of evaluation was $1,193. By 6
months following the study, therapist-physician interaction had reduced
inappropriate treatments to 11% of treatments given.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of ordering guidelines and therapist-evaluators who interact
with physicians can significantly reduce the number of inappropriate respiratory 
care treatments and reduce costs.

PMID: 10315771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Respir Care. 1989 Mar;34(3):179-84.

Factors affecting the job satisfaction of respiratory therapists who work in
adult general and critical care: a multivariate study.

Akroyd HD, Robertson R.

The development of an expanded understanding of employees' reaction to their job 
may be important for improvement in the quality of work life and of services
rendered. We sought to determine the factors, or rewards, that significantly
affect respiratory therapists' job satisfaction.METHOD: Questionnaires designed
to elicit responses related to job satisfaction and demographic information were 
mailed to a random sample of registered respiratory therapists in 9 southeastern 
states. The Job Descriptive Index (JDI) was used to measure facets of and total
job satisfaction. The independent variables used were: Satisfaction with Work on 
the Job, Supervision, Promotion Opportunities, Pay, and People on the Job.
RESULTS: Satisfaction with Work on the Job (p = 0.0001, F = 39.1) and with
Supervision (p = 0.005, F = 8.48) were the only variables that significantly
affected the job satisfaction scores of respiratory therapists.
CONCLUSION: Because satisfaction with work on the job and supervision seem to be 
rewards therapists consider important, managers need to evaluate those factors in
their own organization in relation to their possible impact upon staff members.

PMID: 10315770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Mar;8(3):197-202.

[Risk and follow-up after myocardial infarct at a peripheral hospital].

[Article in Portuguese]

Cardosp AA, Caires AA, Pereira D, de Freitas AD, de Sousa A, de Sousa S, Silva
JA, Araújo JJ, Diniz M, Mendonça MI.

AIM: Analysing the influence of clinical and paraclinical "markers" in long term 
prognosis (LTP) of Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI), in terms of mortality, post
AMI Angina, post AMI Heart Failure and non fatal recurrent AMI in patients of a
Post AMI Consultation of a peripherical hospital.
DESIGN: A) Retrospective study (series A and B) of the average incidence of 17
"markers" of bad post AMI TLP so as to identify those that had a discriminating
value with regards to death after hospital discharge. B) Prospective study so as 
to determine its influence in those patients followed in a post AMI Consultation 
(series C), with regards to mortality, post AMI Angina, post AMI Heart Failure
and non fatal recurrent AMI.
PARTICIPANTS: Series A - 97 survivors of AMI treated on the CCU of Madeira's
Hospital Center in its 1st year. Series B - 91 survivors of AMI treated of AMI
treated on the CCU of Madeira's Hospital Center in its 2nd year. Series C - 88
survivors of AMI treated on the CCU of Madeira's Hospital Center after this
period and followed up since then at the post AMI consultation.
RESULTS: A) Significant statistical differences were observed in the series A and
B, with regards to late mortality, in 5 of those "markers" (aged greater than or 
equal to 70 years, Auricular Fibrillation and Killip III class during the acute
phase of the AMI, frequent ectopic ventricular beats before discharge and a
survival probability of less than or equal to 60% at 5 years after AMI). B) It
was observed that bearers of greater than or equal to 1 of these 5 clinical
"markers" of the series C had significant statistical differences in relation to 
non bearers with regards to mortality, post AMI Angina, post AMI Heart Failure
and non fatal recurrent AMI.
CONCLUSIONS: It is considered that those 5 post AMI clinical "markers" allows
identification of the very bad cases of post AMI LTP in peripherical hospitals.
This identification can lower the ratio cost benefit of the indispensable
diagnostic techniques for stratification of post AMI risk, through the
rationalization of its use. A Study of its accessibility with regards to
peripherical hospitals and a AMI national register became important to evaluate
the problem of the Portuguese AMI survivors in terms of Public Health.

PMID: 2631842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Mar;8(3):191-5.

[Flow patterns of a normally functioning monocuspid aortic prosthesis evaluated
using Doppler echocardiography].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bernardes L, Abreu J, Matos P, Ramos JM, Quininha J, Salomão S.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Flow analysis in normally functioning eccentric monocuspid
aortic prosthetic valves, to obtain a reference data list.
DESIGN: To analyse, using 2D-Doppler Echocardiography, aortic flow velocity and
systolic time intervals in clinically normal patients (pts), by physical
examination.
SETTING: Referred pts to the Echocardiographic Laboratory at Santa Marta
Hospital--HCL.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of 61 pts with aortic prosthesis (41 Bjork-Shiley and
20 Hall-Kaster) without clinical evidence of either cardiac failure or
significant aortic regurgitation. Patients with bad quality record were also
excluded.
INTERVENTIONS: Doppler Echocardiography was used to record transaortic flow, and 
the following indexes were analysed: instantaneous peak velocity (pv) and
gradient (pg), presence of regurgitation, systolic time intervals and both
preejection period/ejection time (PEP/ET) and acceleration time/ejection time
(AT/ET).
RESULTS: Pv ranged from 1.1 to 4 m/sec (mean 2.4 +/- 0.2. The prosthesis size 19 
and 21 showed a greater pg compared to the larger ones: 46.3 +/- 14.4 mmHg
against 12.6 +/- 6.4 mmHg (p less than 0.001). Occasionally a pg over 50 mmHg was
found in the prosthesis size 19 and 21. The correlation between prosthesis size
and pg was also significant (r = -0.62; p less than 0.001). PEP interval was 60
+/- 10 milisec in prosthesis no. 19 and 90 +/- 13 milisec in no. 27 (p less than 
0.01). AT ranged from 77 +/- 14 to 88 +/- 14 milisec (mean 82 +/- 13). ET was 294
+/- 5.4 milisec in valves size 19 and 257 +/- 34 millisec in no. 25 (p less than 
0.05); there was also a significant difference between prosthesis size 19 and 27 
(p less than 0.05). Mild regurgitation was detected in 32.7% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: These data may be particularly useful as reference values to the
follow-up of pts these types of prosthesis. Significant differences were found in
pg between different valve sizes and this should be remembered when proceeding to
standard evaluation by 2D-Doppler Echocardiography. Regurgitation is frequently
detected in normally functioning prosthesis, not deeper than 2 cm in the left
ventricle.

PMID: 2631841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Sportverletz Sportschaden. 1989 Mar;3(1):14-20.

[Changes in the skeleton of the middle foot caused by professional classical
dancing].

[Article in German]

Huwyler J.

On half and three-quarter points, the most frequent foot positions in dance, the 
metatarsals form an extension of the lower leg. In 54% of 56 professional male
and female dancers whose feet were examined, this extraordinary stress leads to
pronounced thickening of the cortex of the second metatarsal and in 6%, of the
third metatarsal as well. There are no symptoms. Hypertrophy of the bone occurs
in response to the additional stress imposed by dancing. Dancing on points is not
the triggering factor, since male and female dancers are equally
affected.COMPLICATIONS: Under intensive stress of dancing, pain can develop in
the medial portion of Lisfrans joint and endanger the dancer's career. Skeletal
scintigraphy in such cases reveals increased metabolism of the bone at the base
of the second metatarsal as well as in the cuneiforme intermedium. The
development of this overstress on the second ray is favored by the following
factors: Primarily by the congenital pes cavus which makes correct stressing of
the foot in dancing impossible; a relatively long second metatarsal, or possibly 
the third metatarsal as well; - by an excessively large antetorsion angle of the 
neck of the femur, which makes correct positioning of the foot in the five
positions of classical dance impossible; - by overstressing the half-points
position in teaching, or by unfavorable training conditions, especially floors
that are too hard. No treatment of these painful complications is possible if
they are caused by anatomical factors. In other cases, several month's rest,
changing ballet technique, and improved conditions regarding the ballet floor can
result in an improvement. Even then, relapses are not infrequent, however.

PMID: 2711323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Z Kardiol. 1989 Mar;78(3):161-6.

[Improved detection of acute myocardial infarct with combined simultaneous
thallium-201/technetium-99m-PPi tomography in comparison with planar infarct
scintigraphy].

[Article in German]

Krause T(1), Kasper W, Schümichen C, Meinertz T, Joseph A, Just H.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Nuklearmedizin, Radiologische Universitätsklinik Freiburg.

The combined TI-201/Tc-99mPPi tomography was compared to planar Tc-99m-PPi
scintigraphy in terms of diagnosis and localization of the infarction. In 32
consecutive patients with recent myocardial infarctions, the necrosis could be
detected by means of planar imaging in 17 out of 22 patients with transmural and 
in three out of 10 patients with intramural infarctions. Six out of seven
patients without recent myocardial infarctions were accurately diagnosed. Double 
radionuclide tomography made possible accurate diagnoses in all patients.
Artefacts resulting from residual radioactivity within the cardiac blood pool and
uptake of tracer in bones that overlie the heart were only observed with planar
imaging.CONCLUSION: double radionuclide tomography is superior to planar imaging 
in the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction.

PMID: 2540594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1989 Mar-Apr;127(2):163-8.

[Save the joint? Replace the joint? Long-term results and considerations in the
treatment of femur head necroses in adults].

[Article in German]

Schneider E(1), Ahrendt J, Niethard FU, Bläsius K.

Author information: 
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

65 patients with necrosis of the femoral head (not caused by a trauma) in 102 hip
joints were examined at an average of 9.7 years following first operation: 1st:
30 joints underwent intertrochanteric varus angulation osteotomy (follow up 11.6 
y).RESULTS: 12/30 clinically not sufficient, 13/30 radiologically worse, only
2/30 improved range of movement. 2nd: 35 hip joints were treated using an
artificial hip replacement (follow up 9.1 y): 77% got loose at an average of 5
years requiring 39 follow-up operations. 3rd: 5 arthrodesis were performed
(follow up 11.4 y). 60% delayed nor non bony union. The results indicate a
general osteopathy overlapping the size of osteonecrosis, and causing a lot of
complications. Various therapeutic concepts should be considered with respect to 
radiological stage and age of the patient. The results of joint saving operations
depend on the ability of the femoral bony structures to react sufficiently.

PMID: 2735102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 1989 Mar;27(3):169-72, 190.

[Optimal conditions for the storage of split-thickness skin at 4C].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu ZM.

Split-thickness human skin must, out of necessity, be stored for days to years
prior to usage as a burn wound covering. This study was designed to utilized
three different parameters of tissue viability in order to determine optimum
conditions for skin survival at 4 degrees C for various periods of time in
RPMI-1640 media. Viability was determined by 1) trypan blue dye exclusion of
trypsinized basal cells (TBC), 2) 14C-leucine incorporation into TBC, and 3) in
vitro skin explant growth. Electron microscopy was also done on selected
samples.METHODS: Split-thickness (0.2-0.3 mm) cadaveric skin (obtained within 24 
hours of death) was divided into 6 tubes containing RPMI-1640 (pH 7.3)
supplemented with 10% Nu-serum and 25 mM Hepes. The ratio of skin to media varied
from 0.2 to 8.0 cm2/ml. The samples were then stored at 4 degrees C for up to 4
weeks with weekly changes of media.
RESULTS: Following 7 days storage, optimal viability (as determined by averaging 
the viabilities obtained from the above assays) was found for samples stored at a
ratio of 2 cm2/ml (90.3 +/- 4.2%). Samples stored at ratios between 1.0 and 6.0
cm2/ml all maintained acceptable viabilities (i.e., greater than 78%), while
samples at either 0.2 or 8.0 cm2/ml were both about 57% viable. EM demonstrated
edema in all samples. The viability of skin stored for 4 weeks at 2-4 cm2/ml
decreased dramatically after 2 weeks.
CONCLUSION: RPMI-1640 is an excellent medium for the storage of split-thickness
skin at 4 degrees C, 2-4 cm2/ml, for up to 7 days. Because of the high viability 
retained in skin stored under these conditions, further long term storage in
liquid nitrogen should provide good quality tissue for transplantation.

PMID: 2776561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1989 Mar;69(3):128-30, 10.

[Clinical analysis of bone diseases in patients under chronic hemopurification].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu LY.

In this article are summed up the x-ray changes of bones, laboratory data and
clinical manifestations of 62 patients treated by hemodialysis (HD),
hemofiltration (HF) and HD plus HF alternately from 1978 to 1987.RESULTS: The
incidence of bone disease reached 79% without significant difference between the 
three groups. The values of serum calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase and
carbon dioxide combining power (CO2CP) in these three groups were obviously
abnormal. Three cases of bone necropsy showed aluminium deposits in bone tissues.
We insist that to prevent the occurrence and worsening of bone disease during
chronic hemopurification, reverse osmosis water should be used to prepare
dialysates and substitution fluids. It is not advisable to use aluminum
containing phosphate binder. The use of active VitD3 in the early stage,
modulation of calcium content in dialysates, control of the intake of phosphates 
from foods, and giving desferrioxamine intravenously when necessary are helpful.

PMID: 2776053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Ugeskr Laeger. 1989 Feb 27;151(9):562-3.

[The value of routine check-ups of patients after radical surgery of colonic
cancer or rectal cancer].

[Article in Danish]

Clausen HV, Kay L, Erichsen CJ, Friis JT, Pedersen T.

In this retrospective study, the efficiency of the postoperative follow-up
regimen was evaluated in patients, radically operated for cancer of the colon or 
cancer of the rectum. The follow-up regimen consisted of clinical examination,
including sigmoidoscopy every six months, supplemented by an X-ray of the colon
every year. Two-hundred and eighty-nine patients were included in the study.
Twenty-three local recurrences and 19 new malignant tumors were diagnosed 20 and 
13 months (mean) after the primary operation, respectively. About one third of
the local recurrences and half of the new malignant tumors were diagnosed at the 
planned follow-ups. Among these patients, a significantly higher success rate as 
regards radical operation was observed at the second operation.IN CONCLUSION:
more frequent follow-ups during the first two years after the primary operation
are recommended in order to improve early diagnosis.

PMID: 2922865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. BMJ. 1989 Feb 25;298(6672):493-6.

Human gastric mucosal bleeding induced by low dose aspirin, but not warfarin.

Prichard PJ(1), Kitchingman GK, Walt RP, Daneshmend TK, Hawkey CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutics, University Hospital, Nottingham.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the suitability of treatment with low dose aspirin or
warfarin, or both, as possible prophylaxis against cardiovascular disease by
determining the effect on gastric mucosal bleeding.
DESIGN: Randomised crossover trial.
SETTING: Academic department of therapeutics.
SUBJECTS: Twenty healthy male volunteers aged 19-22.
INTERVENTIONS: On separate occasions and in randomised order all subjects
received aspirin 75 mg, warfarin, or aspirin 75 mg combined with warfarin. Each
treatment was given for 12 days or (when warfarin was used) for longer if
necessary until the international normalised ratio of the prothrombin time was
stable at 1.4-1.6.
END POINT: Loss of blood over 10 minutes into gastric washings.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bleeding over 10 minutes into gastric washings
under baseline conditions and after five days, and at end of each regimen of
treatment. Aspirin 75 mg increased bleeding from 0.60 (95% confidence interval
0.36 to 0.99) microliters/10 minutes to 1.26 (0.71 to 2.25) microliters/10
minutes at five days, with no evidence of either progressive change or adaptation
thereafter. Warfarin had no effect on bleeding either alone or when combined with
aspirin.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspirin 75 mg causes gastric mucosal bleeding. Low dose warfarin
neither induces gastric mucosal bleeding nor enhances that caused by aspirin.

PMCID: PMC1835778
PMID: 2495079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. BMJ. 1989 Feb 25;298(6672):487-90.

Plasma lipid and coagulation factor concentrations in insulin dependent diabetics
with microalbuminuria.

Jones SL(1), Close CF, Mattock MB, Jarrett RJ, Keen H, Viberti GC.

Author information: 
(1)Unit for Metabolic Medicine, United Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether insulin dependent diabetics with microalbuminuria
have significant abnormalities in concentrations of lipoproteins, apolipoproteins
AI and B, fibrinogen, and clotting factor VII which could result in increased
cardiovascular risk.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
SETTING: Outpatient department of a metabolic ward.
PATIENTS: Group of 20 insulin dependent diabetics with urinary albumin excretion 
rates greater than 30 micrograms/min (microalbuminuria) and 20 individually
matched insulin dependent diabetics with normal urinary albumin excretion rates
(below 30 micrograms/min) matched for age, sex, and duration of diabetes.
INTERVENTIONS: Fasting venous blood samples were taken for determination of
concentrations of glucose, glycated haemoglobin, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins AI
and B, fibrinogen, and factor VII. Height, weight, arterial pressure, and usual
insulin dose were recorded, and each patient was given a dietary questionnaire to
be completed at home.
END POINT: Comparison of blood pressure and concentrations of lipoproteins,
apolipoproteins AI and B, and fibrinogen in the diabetics with microalbuminuria
and the controls.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients with microalbuminuria had significantly
higher concentrations of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (mean 3.33 (SE 0.20)
v 2.84 (0.12) mmol/l) and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol (0.30 (0.05) v
0.17 (0.03) mmol/l) than controls but significantly lower concentrations of high 
density lipoprotein 2 subfraction cholesterol (0.32 (0.04) v 0.54 (0.04) mmol/l).
Concentrations of total triglyceride (1.11 (0.14) v 0.68 (0.08) mmol/l), very low
density lipoprotein triglyceride (0.56 (0.10) v 0.30 (0.05) mmol/l),
apolipoprotein B (0.88 (0.06) v 0.67 (0.03) g/l) and fibrinogen (2.2 (0.1) v 1.9 
(0.1) g/l), and diastolic arterial pressure (80 (2) v 74 (2) mm Hg), were also
higher in patients with microalbuminuria.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiovascular risk factors--namely, disturbances in lipoprotein and
apolipoprotein concentrations, increased fibrinogen concentration, and increased 
arterial pressure--are already present in insulin dependent diabetics with
microalbuminuria. The increased risk of coronary heart disease in patients with
clinical proteinuria may result from prolonged exposure to these risk factors,
which are present before any impairment of renal function.

PMCID: PMC1835810
PMID: 2495077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1989 Feb 25;133(8):400-4.

[Results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in renal artery stenosis during
the period 1978-1986].

[Article in Dutch]

Puijlaert CB, Klinge J, Mali WP, Geyskes GG, Kouwenberg JJ.

Two hundred and thirteen patients with hypertension and renal artery stenosis
were treated with percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA). The
angiographic appearance was typical of atherosclerosis in 134 patients and of
fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) in 52 patients, and could not reliably be
classified in one of these groups in 27. In these patients 272 renal artery
stenoses were treated. In 81% of these patients the PTRA was technically
successful. The antihypertensive result in this group of 210 patients was
positive (cure or improvement) in 80%. The life-table results after 5 years show 
cure or improvement in the atherosclerotic group (n = 35) in 80.27%, in the FMD
group (n = 20) in 88.83% and in the unclassified group (n = 10) in 74.27%. One
patient died from a mesenteric thrombosis and one from a myocardial infarction
which both occurred within a few days after PTRA. Accordingly, the mortality was 
less than 1%.IN CONCLUSION: PTRA appears to be a good treatment of renovascular
hypertension caused by atherosclerosis or FMD, with good long-term
antihypertensive effects.

PMID: 2522595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. BMJ. 1989 Feb 18;298(6671):433-6.

Using nurses for preventive activities with computer assisted follow up: a
randomised controlled trial.

Robson J(1), Boomla K, Fitzpatrick S, Jewell AJ, Taylor J, Self J, Colyer M.

Author information: 
(1)Chrisp Street Health Centre, London.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether an organised programme of prevention including the
use of a health promotion nurse noticeably improved recording and follow up of
cardiovascular risk factors and cervical smears in a general practice that had
access to computerised cell and recall.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: General practice in inner London.
PATIENTS: All 3206 men and women aged 30-64 registered with the practice.
INTERVENTION: The intervention group had their risk factors ascertained and
followed up by the health promotion nurse and the general practitioner, whereas
those in the control group were managed by the general practitioner alone.
END POINT: Recording and follow up of blood pressure and cervical smears after
three years. Recording of smoking, family history of ischaemic heart disease, and
serum cholesterol concentrations were also examined.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: When the trial was stopped after two years the
measurements of blood pressure in the preceding five years were 93% (1511/1620) v
73% (1160/1586) (95% confidence interval for difference 17.5 to 22.7%) for
intervention and control groups respectively. For patients with hypertension the 
figures were 97% (104/107) v 69% (80/116) (18.2 to 38.2%). For women the
proportion who had had a cervical smear in the preceding three years were 76%
(606/799) v 49% (392/806) (22.5 to 31.9%). Recording of smoking, family history
of ischaemic heart disease, and serum cholesterol concentrations was also higher 
in the intervention group compared with the control group.
CONCLUSION: An organised programme, which includes a nurse with specific
responsibility for adult prevention, is likely to make an important contribution 
to recording of risk factors and follow up of those patients with known risks.

PMCID: PMC1835698
PMID: 2495053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. BMJ. 1989 Feb 18;298(6671):424-30.

Prevention of atherosclerotic complications: controlled trial of ketanserin.
Prevention of Atherosclerotic Complications with Ketanserin Trial Group.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    BMJ 1989 Mar 11;298(6674):644.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1989 Apr 15;298(6679):1033.
    BMJ. 1989 Mar 18;298(6675):752.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether ketanserin, an antagonist at the serotonin 
receptor, prevents important vascular events such as death, myocardial
infarction, major stroke, and amputation of a leg in patients with claudication.
DESIGN: Double blind, randomised, placebo controlled trial after a single blind
run in period of placebo treatment for one month.
SETTING: One hundred and forty seven outpatient clinics in 14 countries.
PATIENTS: Total of 3899 patients over 40 years old who had had documented
intermittent claudication for at least two months and in whom the ratio of
systolic blood pressure in the ankle to that in the arm was less than or equal to
0.85 in both arteries of at least one foot.
INTERVENTION: After the one month placebo run in period patients were randomly
allocated to take 20 mg ketanserin three times daily for the first month and 40
mg three times daily thereafter or to take the same number of placebo tablets.
Five months after the onset of the trial, on the recommendation of the ethical
and safety committee, four patients stopped taking ketanserin and two stopped
taking placebo because they had a corrected QT interval greater than 500 ms. Four
months later the committee recommended that all patients taking diuretics should 
stop receiving trial treatment (167 of those taking ketanserin and 144 of those
taking placebo).
END POINT: The first primary event after randomisation. Primary events were
definite myocardial infarction, major stroke, amputation above the ankle,
excision of ischaemic viscera, and death due to other vascular causes.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 136 study end points in the 1930
patients treated with ketanserin, who were followed up for 2063 patient years,
and 132 study end points in the 1969 patients treated with placebo, who were
followed up for 2129 patient years. A harmful interaction of ketanserin and
potassium losing diuretics resulted in an increase in the number of deaths. After
patients taking potassium losing diuretics or antiarrhythmic agents were excluded
[corrected] a secondary analysis showed that there were 65 end points in 1514
patients taking ketanserin and 87 in 1557 patients taking placebo, a reduction of
23% in the number of study end points in those taking ketanserin.
CONCLUSIONS: Ketanserin can prolong the corrected QT interval, and the combined
use of ketanserin and potassium losing diuretics can be harmful. A secondary
analysis suggested a protective effect of ketanserin against cardiovascular
complications in patients with claudication.

PMCID: PMC1835670
PMID: 2495049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. BMJ. 1989 Feb 18;298(6671):419-22.

Human immunodeficiency viruses in patients attending a sexually transmitted
disease clinic in London, 1982-7.

Loveday C(1), Pomeroy L, Weller IV, Quirk J, Hawkins A, Williams H, Smith A,
Williams P, Tedder RS, Adler MW.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Genitourinary Medicine, University College and Middlesex
School of Medicine, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of infection with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in all patients attending a London sexually
transmitted disease clinic over four weeks at the end of 1987 and to see how it
varied from that in similar samples studied between 1982 and 1986.
DESIGN: Anonymous testing of serum samples from consecutive heterosexual and
homosexual patients having routine serological investigations for syphilis.
Testing was for anti-HIV-I, anti-HIV-II, and hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc)
and P24 antigen. Age, nationality, sexual orientation, and past sexually
transmitted diseases were recorded for each patient. Gonorrhoea rates by quarters
were analysed among homosexual and bisexual men and heterosexual men and women
from 1981 to 1987.
SETTING: Outpatient department of genitourinary medicine.
PATIENTS: A total of 1074 patients attending consecutively for syphilis serology.
Thirty five homosexual and bisexual men were excluded (these were regular
attenders as part of a prospective study of the natural course of HIV infection).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The prevalence of anti-HIV-I in homosexual and
bisexual men in 1987 was 25.6% (64/250). Results in the same clinic population
between 1982 and 1984 had shown a rise in prevalence, which flattened out in
1985-6 and continued at that level. Among heterosexual attenders in 1987 the
prevalence of anti-HIV-I was 1% (women 4/412; men 4/377), which contrasted with a
prevalence of 0.5% (women 2/395; men 3/757) in January 1986. One homosexual man
was seropositive for anti-HIV-II and seronegative for anti-HIV-I. Among
homosexual and bisexual men the rate of gonorrhoea had declined by an average of 
2.7% a year since 1981, such that by 1987--and for the first time in the
clinic--there was no significant difference in the rates between these men and
heterosexual men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: The appearance of HIV-I infection among heterosexuals indicates a
need for more aggressive education programmes and intervention strategies along
the lines adopted for homosexual men. Surveillance for HIV-II infection is needed
to provide information for future policy in national screening programmes.

PMCID: PMC1835641
PMID: 2495047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. BMJ. 1989 Feb 18;298(6671):411-5.

Risk factors for male to female transmission of HIV. European Study Group.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors for sexual transmission of HIV from infected 
men to their female sexual partners.
DESIGN: Cross sectional analysis as part of a continuing study. Data were
obtained by interviewing heterosexual couples in which the man was infected with 
HIV. Risks were assessed by comparing couples in which transmission had occurred 
(woman infected with HIV) with those in which it had not (woman not infected) and
estimated by independent odds ratios and their 95% confidence intervals.
SETTING: Infectious disease and public health departments from nine centres in
six European countries.
PARTICIPANTS: 153 Male index patients (mean age 30.4 years) and their 155 female 
partners (mean age 27.8 years).
INTERVENTIONS: Women were tested to determine their HIV antibody state. Women
with a risk of infection with HIV other than sexual contact with their infected
partner were excluded.
END POINT: Three risk factors for male to female transmission of HIV.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Three risk factors were identified: a history of
sexually transmitted disease in the previous five years for the female partner
(odds ratio 3.1, 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 8.6); index patient with full
blown AIDS (5.4, 1.2 to 25.2); and practice of anal intercourse (5.8, 2.3 to
14.8). The proportion of women positive for HIV antibody was 27% (42/155),
ranging from 7% (1 to 13%) (4/60) for couples with none of the three risk factors
to 67% (45 to 89%) (12/18) for those with two or three of the risk factors.
Duration of the relationship (median three years), frequency of sexual contacts, 
sexual practices other than anal intercourse, and contraceptive behaviour were
not associated with infection of the partner.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of sexual transmission of HIV from an infected man to his
female partner varies considerably according to the characteristics of the
couple. The differences in rates of transmission in high risk groups may be
considerably reduced if the risk factors are taken into account during individual
and public health counselling.

PMCID: PMC1835678
PMID: 2495045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):286-9.

Diagnosis of sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions by in-vitro "rechallenge"
with hydroxylamine metabolites.

Rieder MJ(1), Uetrecht J, Shear NH, Cannon M, Miller M, Spielberg SP.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital for Sick Children, Sunnybrook Medical Centre, Toronto, Ontario.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether differences in in-vitro detoxification of
sulfonamide-reactive metabolites can be detected among the lymphocytes from
controls, patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions, and patients with
nonhypersensitivity reactions to the sulfonamide agents.
DESIGN: In-vitro toxicity assay on lymphocytes.
SETTING: Clinics for adverse drug reactions in an adult and pediatric tertiary
care center.
PATIENTS: Peripheral blood lymphocytes were obtained from 46 normal volunteers
and 76 patients referred to the clinic for assessment of adverse drug reactions
to sulfonamide agents. Thirty-one patients had clinical histories consistent with
a diagnosis of hypersensitivity reaction, whereas 45 patients had clinical
histories felt to be inconsistent with a diagnosis of hypersensitivity reaction.
INTERVENTIONS: Lymphocytes were assayed with tetrazolium to determine toxicity
from the hydroxylamine of sulfamethoxazole.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The lymphocytes from patients with a history of
hypersensitivity reactions showed markedly increased toxicity across a
tenfold-concentration toxicity-concentration curve compared with those from
controls and patients with a history of nonhypersensitivity reactions. These
differences were highly significant (P less than 0.01). No difference was found
between the toxicity shown by the lymphocytes from controls and that shown by the
lymphocytes from patients with a history of nonhypersensitivity reactions.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic differences in the production and detoxification of
reactive metabolites of sulfonamide agents are important determinants of
hypersensitivity reactions to these agents. These results suggest that the
hydroxylamine derivative of sulfamethoxazole may be a reactive metabolite
mediating these reactions. Sulfonamide hydroxylamines are useful in the diagnosis
and study of the pathogenesis of hypersensitivity reactions to sulfonamide
agents.

PMID: 2913915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):267-74.

Calcitriol treatment is not effective in postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Ott SM(1), Chesnut CH 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Seattle.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 1;111(7):621.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Oct 15;111(8):689.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if calcitriol is an effective treatment in
postmenopausal osteoporosis.
DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized clinical trial of 2 years' duration.
SETTING: University medical center with patients recruited by media
announcements.
PATIENTS: Eighty-six postmenopausal women with vertebral compression fractures.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were treated with calcitriol or placebo. Mean dose was
0.43 micrograms/d. Dietary calcium was 1000 mg/d (24.9 mmol/d). The medication
dose and dietary calcium were adjusted for hypercalciuria or hypercalcemia.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: No significant differences between placebo and
control groups were seen in the percent change in total body calcium (0.4% +/-
1.0 compared with 0.0% +/- 0.9), single photon absorptiometry (-0.5% +/- 1.2
compared with -3.1% +/- 0.9) or dual photon absorptiometry (0.0% +/- 1.7 compared
with -1.0% +/- 2.2). New fractures were seen in 16% of the placebo group and 26% 
of the calcitriol groups, so the difference in percent fractures was 10% (95% CI,
-5.7% to 25.7%). Bone biopsies did not show changes in either group. The
calcitriol group had significantly higher serum and urine calcium values, but
renal function was not worse than in the placebo group.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcitriol is not an effective treatment for established
postmenopausal osteoporosis.

PMID: 2913914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):259-66.

Self-report questionnaire scores in rheumatoid arthritis compared with
traditional physical, radiographic, and laboratory measures.

Pincus T(1), Callahan LF, Brooks RH, Fuchs HA, Olsen NJ, Kaye JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether scores on a simple self-report questionnaire
to depict the clinical status of patients with rheumatoid arthritis are
correlated with traditional measures of physical, radiographic, laboratory,
functional, and global status.
DESIGN: The self-report questionnaire was administered at the same time the
following variables were assessed: American Rheumatism Association functional
class, joint count, hand radiograph, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rheumatoid
factor titer, walking time, grip strength, button test, and global
self-assessment.
SETTING: University rheumatology clinic, the rheumatology clinic of a Veterans
Administration hospital, and a private rheumatology practice.
PATIENTS: The study included 259 patients who met the criteria of the American
Rheumatism Association for a diagnosis of definite or classic rheumatoid
arthritis.
INTERVENTIONS: Standard rheumatologic care for patients with rheumatoid
arthritis.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Self-report questionnaire scores were
significantly correlated with the joint count, radiographic score, erythrocyte
sedimentation rate, grip strength, button test, walking time, American Rheumatism
Association functional class, and global self-assessment. Patients were
categorized into five questionnaire score categories of 1.00, indicating no
dysfunction, and 1.01 to 1.50, 1.51 to 2.00, 2.01 to 3.00, and 3.01 to 4.00,
indicating progressive dysfunction. In these five categories, more than ten
involved joints were seen in 11%, 37%, 67%, 79%, and 100% of patients,
respectively, and erythrocyte sedimentation rates greater than 20 mm/h in 29%,
49%, 64%, 74%, and 85% of patients, respectively. Similar results were seen for
other physical and radiographic measures. The questionnaire score was as
effective in explaining other measures of clinical status as was any other
available measure.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple self-report questionnaire provides information similar to
many traditional measures in rheumatoid arthritis and appears to be an
attractive, cost-effective approach to assessing and monitoring quantitatively
the status of an individual patient.

PMID: 2913913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):304-12.

Diagnostic tests for patients with suspected allergic disease. Utility and
limitations.

VanArsdel PP Jr(1), Larson EB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Aug 15;113(4):331-2.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical efficacy of diagnostic tests used for
persons with suspected allergic disease.
DESIGN: Information synthesis based on historical review of developments in the
understanding of the pathophysiology of allergic diseases and on selected recent 
literature on efficacy of specific diagnostic tests.
MAIN RESULTS: Skin testing is most effective when based on clues from the
patient's history. The sensitivity and specificity of skin testing methods are
compared: skin prick testing alone is often sufficient to identify or exclude
immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated hypersensitivity, including food allergy. Except 
for penicillin and certain macromolecules, skin testing is not useful for
evaluating drug allergy. Skin test titration may be useful for determining the
starting dose for immunotherapy; otherwise it is rarely necessary. The patch skin
test helps identify the cause of allergic contact dermatitis. Bronchial
provocation testing is useful in special cases. Oral provocation testing may be
used to identify allergy or other intolerance to suspected foods, food additives,
and certain drugs. Provocation testing is time-consuming and requires special
precautions. In-vitro methods for identifying allergen-specific IgE are
especially useful when skin testing is unreliable, equivocal, or cannot be done. 
In-vitro tests should be used as adjuncts to the clinical interview and
examination.
CONCLUSIONS: Tests that are effective for identifying allergenic substances
usually can be determined from a careful patient interview. Clinicians should be 
aware of nonspecific test results and allergy tests of unproven effectiveness.

PMID: 2643916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):290-6.

Drugs five years later: praziquantel.

King CH(1), Mahmoud AA.

Author information: 
(1)Case Western Reserve University and University Hospitals, Cleveland, Ohio.

PURPOSE: To identify advances in knowledge of the pharmacokinetics, mechanism of 
action, clinical use, and side effects of the antihelminthic drug praziquantel in
the 5 years since its introduction in the United States.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies reported from 1983 to July 1988 were identified by
computer searches of MEDLINE and TOXLINE, and review of textbooks and review
articles.
STUDY SELECTION: Of 57 articles originally identified, 39 were selected by two
readers.
DATA EXTRACTION: Study quality and significance were independently assessed by
each reader.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: The pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy of
praziquantel have been well documented. Yet, despite extensive in vivo and in
vitro laboratory studies, the drug's mechanism of action in killing parasites is 
unknown. Although the efficacy of praziquantel was first established for treating
schistosomiasis, in the last 5 years its clinical use has been expanded to the
treatment of intestinal, tissue, and lung flukes, and intestinal and tissue
cestode infections, including neurocysticercosis. The introduction of
praziquantel was a significant advance in antihelminthic therapy, in that it was 
effective therapy for several parasites that had been previously considered
untreatable. Availability of a safe, effective broad-spectrum oral antihelminthic
agent consolidated the central role of chemotherapy in population-based control
of many trematode and cestode parasites. Randomized trials have shown, however,
that older, cheaper agents may be more cost-effective in controlling Schistosoma 
mansoni and Schistosoma haematobium in some endemic areas.
CONCLUSIONS: Although praziquantel is the treatment of choice for most human
trematode and cestode infections, cost factors have limited its use in developing
countries.

PMID: 2643915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 15;110(4):279-85.

The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine administered by continuous infusion in
children.

Balis FM(1), Pizzo PA, Murphy RF, Eddy J, Jarosinski PF, Falloon J, Broder S,
Poplack DG.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To define the pharmacokinetics of zidovudine (azidothymidine) in
children with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
DESIGN: Plasma, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid were obtained following a single
80 mg/m2 body surface dose infused over 1 hour (n = 9), and during a continuous
infusion of 0.5 (n = 3), 0.9 (n = 8), 1.4 (n = 7), or 1.8 (n = 3) mg/kg body
weight per hour.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic and inpatient ward of the Pediatric Branch of the
National Cancer Institute.
PATIENTS: Twenty-one children (seventeen boys) ranging in age from 14 months to
12 years with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection who were being
treated on a phase I-II study of continuous intravenous infusion zidovudine.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Zidovudine disappearance following bolus
administration was rapid and biexponential with half-lives of 9.6 and 92 minutes,
and a total clearance of 705 +/- 330 mL/min.m2. Zidovudine remained above 1
mumol/L, the optimal virostatic concentration in vitro, for only 1.5 hours. In
contrast, with continuous infusion steady-state plasma zidovudine concentrations 
(Css) were maintained above 1 mumol/L continuously, even at the lowest infusion
rate. At steady state the ratio of cerebrospinal fluid zidovudine concentration
to plasma was 24% +/- 9%. Patients who developed severe neutropenia (absolute
neutrophil count less than 0.5 X 10(9)/L) on the continuous infusion regimen had 
significantly higher plasma Css. Six of eight had a Css greater than 3.0 mumol/L.
CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacokinetic parameters show that continuous infusion is better
than an intermittent schedule in maintaining minimal virostatic concentrations of
the drug with a lower daily dose.

PMID: 2643914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1989 Feb 14;78(7):155-8.

[Surgery of bronchus carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Huber A.

Indications for surgical treatment of lung cancer are based on histology and
staging of the tumour and on the general condition of the patient.HISTOLOGY: The 
current therapy for non-small cell cancer of the lung is operative excision.
Small cell cancer however is best treated by chemotherapy or radiotherapy or by
both in combination. Small or peripheral small cell cancer should also be removed
surgically, but only in combination with chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Stage:
Non-small cell tumours, which are assessed to be limited to the thorax and
locally resectable have to be removed surgically. If the tumour involves the
chest wall, pre- and postoperative radio-therapy is advisable. If lymph nodes in 
the upper mediastinum or in the contralateral hilus are involved, or if distant
metastases are proven, surgical intervention is indicated only in exceptional
cases.
PATIENT: The patient's general condition should allow tolerance of thoracotomy
and extensive resection of lung parenchyma and adjacent tissue. Adequate
ventilatory reserve is mandatory. In this regard it is important to realize that 
part of the lung may already be excluded from ventilation by obstruction, and
resection of such parenchyma does not further impede ventilation. Indeed,
resection of non-ventilated segments of lung parenchyma will even improve
cardio-pulmonary reserve since the procedure might eliminate pulmonary
av-shunting.

PMID: 2538907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. BMJ. 1989 Feb 11;298(6670):359-61.

Optimum duration of antithyroid drug treatment determined by assay of thyroid
stimulating antibody in patients with Graves' disease.

Edan G(1), Massart C, Hody B, Poirier JY, Lé Reun M, Hespel JP, Leclech G, Simon 
M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique Médicale B, Hôpital Sud, Rennes, France.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal duration of antithyroid drug treatment by
monitoring serum thyroid stimulating antibody values in patients with Graves'
disease.
DESIGN: Prospective longitudinal trial of patients with Graves' disease followed 
up for 24 months after withdrawal of treatment.
SETTING: Tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: A total of 64 consecutive patients with untreated Graves' disease,
eight of whom were subsequently excluded. Fifty six patients completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients were treated initially with carbimazole 40 mg, then
with decreasing doses that maintained a euthyroid state. Treatment was scheduled 
to continue for 18 months but was withdrawn earlier if serum thyroid stimulating 
antibody became undetectable.
END POINT: Serum values of thyroid stimulating antibody (assayed by stimulation
of human thyroid cells in vitro) and thyroid hormones and thyroid state every
three months during treatment and afterwards every six months for 24 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In 44 patients serum thyroid stimulating antibody 
became undetectable during treatment and treatment was withdrawn (median duration
of treatment nine months, range 3-18 months). In 12 patients the antibody could
be detected during 18 months of treatment. Among the first group of 44 patients
initial values of the antibody before treatment were significantly lower than in 
the second group of 12 patients (median 225% (range 138-1236%) v 570%
(250-1480%), p less than 0.001); the incidence of relapse was also lower (41% v
92%, p less than 0.001); and among those who did relapse the disease free
interval after treatment was longer (median 12 months v 1 month, p less than
0.001). Moreover, the initial median serum values of thyroid stimulating
antibodies were not related to the occurrence of relapse or remission as these
did not differ between patients who did and did not have a relapse (median 267%
(range 139-1480%) v 220% (range 138-1236%).
CONCLUSION: Monitoring of serum thyroid stimulating antibody was a good guide to 
the duration of treatment as it allowed the treatment period to be considerably
shortened in a large group of patients with no loss of efficiency.

PMCID: PMC1835719
PMID: 2564286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. BMJ. 1989 Feb 11;298(6670):366-70.

Mental health, job satisfaction, and job stress among general practitioners.

Cooper CL(1), Rout U, Faragher B.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manchester, Institute of Science and Technology.

OBJECTIVE: To identify sources of job stress associated with high levels of job
dissatisfaction and negative mental wellbeing among general practitioners in
England.
DESIGN: Multivariate analysis of large database of general practitioners compiled
from results of confidential questionnaire survey. Data obtained on independent
variables of job stress, demographic factors, and personality. Dependent
variables were mental health, job satisfaction, alcohol consumption, and smoking.
SETTING: National sample of general practitioners studied by university
department of organisational psychology.
SUBJECTS: One thousand eight hundred seventeen general practitioners selected at 
random by 20 family practitioner committees in England.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
END POINT: Determination of the combination of independent variables that were
predictive of mental health and job satisfaction.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Women general practitioners both had job
satisfaction and showed positive signs of mental wellbeing in contrast with other
normative groups. Conversely, male doctors showed significantly higher anxiety
scores than the norms, had less job satisfaction, and drank more alcohol than
their women counterparts. Multivariate analysis disclosed four job stressors that
were predictive of high levels of job dissatisfaction and lack of mental
wellbeing; these were demands of the job and patients' expectations, interference
with family life, constant interruptions at work and home, and practice
administration.
CONCLUSIONS: There may be substantial benefit in providing a counselling service 
for general practitioners and other health care workers who suffer psychological 
pressure from their work.

PMCID: PMC1835734
PMID: 2493939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. BMJ. 1989 Feb 11;298(6670):357-9.

Prevalence of spina bifida occulta in patients with functional disorders of the
lower urinary tract and its relation to urodynamic and neurophysiological
measurements.

Fidas A(1), MacDonald HL, Elton RA, McInnes A, Wild SR, Chisholm GD.

Author information: 
(1)Western General Hospital, Edinburgh.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relation between neurophysiological abnormalities and
the radiological detection of spina bifida occulta in patients with dysfunction
of the lower urinary tract.
DESIGN: Blind assessment and subsequent decoding of mixed batch of abdominal
radiographs from patients with and without urological symptoms for evidence of
spina bifida occulta and comparison of results with those of previous control
series.
SETTING: Review study among tertiary referrals to an incontinence clinic of a
city hospital.
PATIENTS: One hundred and thirty eight adults with proved urodynamic
abnormalities in whom neurophysiological measurements were available.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
END POINT: Correlation of neurophysiological abnormalities in lower urinary tract
dysfunction with presence and type of spina bifida occulta and level of opening
of posterior sacral arcs.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: On decoding radiographs those from patients
without urological symptoms showed a similar prevalence of spina bifida occulta
to that in the control series (631/2707 controls; 23%). By contrast, patients
with urological symptoms had a significantly increased prevalence of spina bifida
occulta at S1 and S2 and a higher level of opening of posterior sacral arcs. The 
increased prevalence of the bony defect was particularly striking in men with
urgency and instability and in women with stress incontinence. No significant
correlation was found between any particular neurophysiological abnormality and
the presence of spina bifida.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with dysfunction of the lower urinary tract
neurophysiological abnormalities may be associated with congenital dysraphic
lesions in the lower lumbar spine and sacrum. There appears to be no direct
causal relation between the radiological and neurophysiological abnormalities but
the findings suggest a common aetiological factor.

PMCID: PMC1835713
PMID: 2493933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Biol Chem. 1989 Feb 5;264(4):2037-42.

Amino acid regulation of insulin action in isolated adipocytes. Selective ability
of amino acids to enhance both insulin sensitivity and maximal insulin
responsiveness of the protein synthesis system.

Marshall S(1), Monzon R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163.

Using the number and concentration of amino acids in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's 
medium as reference (DMEM = 100%), we found that a maximally effective
concentration of insulin (10 ng/ml) stimulated protein synthesis by 125% over
basal rate in the presence of 50% amino acids (EC50 = 19%), but by only 48% in
amino acid-free buffer. Moreover, time course experiments revealed that amino
acid regulation of insulin action was very rapid (t1/2 of 9.5 min) and readily
reversible (less than 30 min). This effect was specific in that basal rates of
protein synthesis were unaltered by amino acids. A second effect of amino acids
was to markedly enhance insulin sensitivity of the protein synthesis system in a 
dose-dependent manner. Thus, the half-maximally effective concentrations of
insulin required to stimulate protein synthesis fell from 0.43 to 0.25 to 0.15
ng/ml in the presence of 0, 50, and 150% amino acids. Neither insulin sensitivity
nor maximal insulin responsiveness of the glucose transport system was altered by
amino acids, nor did amino acids affect the insulin binding capacity of cells.
When we divided the 14 amino acids found in DMEM into two groups, we found that
one group of 7 amino acids had little or no effect on insulin sensitivity or
responsiveness, whereas the other group was fully active (a 157% increase in
insulin responsiveness, ED50 of 0.21 ng/ml versus a 68% increase, ED50 of 0.51
ng/ml, with no amino acids). Isoleucine and serine together increased both
insulin sensitivity and responsiveness to 60-70% of that seen with the full
complement of amino acids.IN CONCLUSION: 1) amino acids modulate insulin action
by enhancing maximal insulin responsiveness and insulin sensitivity of the
protein synthesis system, and the regulatory site of amino acid action appears to
be distal to the common signal pathway, within the insulin action-protein
synthesis cascade, and 2) the effects of amino acids are specific, in that basal 
rates of protein synthesis are unaffected, only certain amino acids influence
insulin action, and amino acids fail to alter insulin binding or the
insulin-responsive glucose transport system. These studies, together with those
in the companion paper, demonstrate that the pleiotropic actions of insulin on
enhancing glucose uptake and protein synthesis are mediated through divergent
pathways that can be independently regulated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2644251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. BMJ. 1989 Feb 4;298(6669):284-8.

Short term effect of captopril on microalbuminuria induced by exercise in
normotensive diabetics.

Romanelli G(1), Giustina A, Cimino A, Valentini U, Agabiti-Rosei E, Muiesan G,
Giustina G.

Author information: 
(1)Cattedra di Patologia Speciale Medica, University of Brescia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether captopril has any effect on microalbuminuria
induced by exercise in normotensive diabetic patients with early stage
nephropathy.
DESIGN: Randomised, double blind, crossover trial.
SETTING: Outpatient department.
PATIENTS: 22 diabetics with stage II nephropathy (urinary albumin excretion rate 
less than 20 micrograms/min; 15 with type I diabetes and seven with type II), 32 
patients with stage III nephropathy (urinary albumin excretion rate 20-200
micrograms/min; 14 with type I diabetes and 18 with type II), and 10 normal
subjects.
INTERVENTIONS: Four exercise tests on a cycle ergometer: the first two under
basal conditions and the third and fourth after subjects had received captopril
(two 25 mg doses in 24 hours) or placebo (two tablets in 24 hours).
END POINT: Exercised until 90% of maximum heart rate achieved.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean urinary excretion one hour after the first
two exercise tests was 21 micrograms/min in normal subjects, 101 micrograms/min
in diabetic patients with stage II nephropathy, and 333 micrograms/min in those
with stage III nephropathy. Similar results were obtained after placebo. After
captopril the urinary excretion rate one hour after exercise was significantly
decreased in diabetics with stage II (36 micrograms/min) and stage III (107
micrograms/min) disease compared with placebo but not in normal subjects.
Systolic and diastolic pressures were similar in the three groups after placebo
and captopril had been given.
CONCLUSIONS: Captopril significantly reduces microalbuminuria induced by exercise
in normotensive diabetics without affecting systemic blood pressure. Captopril
may reduce renal intracapillary pressure.

PMCID: PMC1835608
PMID: 2493897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Cas Lek Cesk. 1989 Feb 3;128(6):161-4.

[Long-term prognosis of patients with chronic post-infarct aneurysms. II.
Comparison of patients treated conservatively and surgically].

[Article in Czech]

Aschermann M, Jezek V, Jezková J, Kölbel F, Lichtenberg J, Tersíp K, Tosovský J.

Survival rates were determined for a group of 136 patients in whom left
ventricular aneurysm was determined by angiography. They were treated medically
(99 patients) or surgically (37 patients). Congestive heart failure was
predominant in all patients. The two groups did not differ in regard to clinical 
and haemodynamic data except for a more extensive coronary artery disease in the 
surgical group. Survival rates at the 5, 7 and 9 years were 62.5%, 52.5% and
37.5% in the medicaly treated group and 50%, 40% and 32.5% in the surgical group.
Functional improvement at least one Functional Class NYHA was present in 75%
patients postoperatively, and in 27% of patients treated medically.CONCLUSION: In
patients with left ventricular aneurysm with predominant congestive heart failure
surgical treatment improved quality of life but did not increase long-term
survival.

PMID: 2720747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):183-6.

Cocaine-associated acute myoglobinuric renal failure.

Pogue VA(1), Nurse HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harlem Hospital Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, New York, New York 10037.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):248-9.

PURPOSE: Abuse of cocaine is associated with serious medical complications
involving the heart, central nervous system, and gastrointestinal tract. Renal
complications appear to be uncommon. We describe herein four patients with
rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure temporally related to
cocaine use.
CASE REPORTS: Acute cocaine intoxication was the most common presentation and
rhabdomyolysis was an unexpected finding. Renal failure progressed rapidly in all
patients, necessitating dialysis in two. The prognosis was good, and all patients
survived. The mechanism of cocaine injury is unclear; possibilities include
increased muscle activity, muscle compression, hyperthermia, and vasospasm with
muscle ischemia.
CONCLUSION: Rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure should be recognized as a
possible complication of cocaine abuse.

PMID: 2913784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):169-72.

Occult polymicrobial endocarditis with Haemophilus parainfluenzae in intravenous 
drug abusers.

Raucher B(1), Dobkin J, Mandel L, Edberg S, Levi M, Miller M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):487-9.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fewer than 8 percent of intravenous drug
abusers are found to have polymicrobial endocarditis. We report on cases of
occult polymicrobial infective endocarditis with Haemophilus parainfluenzae in 10
intravenous drug abusers. Clinical and laboratory data on all 10 patients were
obtained from hospital charts, and information on illicit drug use methods was
given by five patients. Blood cultures were performed, as well as susceptibility 
testing to antibiotics. Subsequent molecular epidemiologic studies were performed
on selected Staphylococcus aureus and H. parainfluenzae strains. Phage typing of 
S. aureus and biotyping of H. parainfluenzae strains were also done.
RESULTS: Results of the initial blood cultures were positive on the second to
fifth days (mean, 2.6 days), demonstrating a gram-positive pathogen in nine
patients and Bacteroides asaccharolyticus in one. Significantly, in each case, H.
parainfluenzae alone was subsequently identified from additional blood cultures, 
with a mean delay of 20.4 days (range, five to 57 days) to the isolation of this 
organism. Epidemiologic data indicated that our cases did not represent a
point-source outbreak. Antibiotic therapy uniformly failed until an agent active 
against H. parainfluenzae was added. The constellation of clinical,
microbiologic, and epidemiologic findings was similar, and permitted prospective 
diagnosis and therapy in three patients. Despite the absence of S. aureus
bacteremia in four, all 10 patients had right-sided endocarditis with septic
pulmonary emboli. Five patients had initial blood cultures that were positive for
two facultative gram-positive cocci (S. aureus and commensal oral streptococcal
species).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that polymicrobial endocarditis with H.
parainfluenzae in intravenous drug abusers is a distinct clinical syndrome, and
should be considered in all patients if the response to appropriate antibiotics
is atypical or if pulmonary emboli continue with therapy.

PMID: 2913783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):151-7.

Delayed diagnosis of gynecologic tumors in elderly women: relation to national
medical practice patterns.

Grover SA(1), Cook EF, Adam J, Coupal L, Goldman L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Epidemiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the hypothesis that less aggressive cancer screening
practices might result in later diagnosis of cancer in the elderly, we analyzed
the stage of diagnosis of tumors by age in the Connecticut Tumor Registry.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using Registry data from 1960 to 1975 and 1976 to 1983, we 
compared the proportion of tumors that were diagnosed at a localized stage among 
white women of various age groups. Thirteen specific tumor sites were analyzed,
accounting for 55,688 tumors between 1960 and 1975 and 38,715 tumors between 1976
and 1983.
RESULTS: Only gynecologic cancers demonstrated a significant inverse relationship
between the relative proportion of tumors that were diagnosed at a localized
stage and advancing patient age during both time periods. Specifically, when the 
youngest women (aged 25 to 34) were compared with the oldest women (aged 85 and
over), between 1960 and 1975, the relative proportion of localized cervical,
uterine, and ovarian cancer dropped from 98 percent to 59 percent, 92 percent to 
77 percent, and 59 percent to 27 percent, respectively. Similar declines were
also seen between the intermediate-age groups, and data from 1976 to 1983
demonstrated identical age-related trends.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals that the probability of diagnosing cancer of the
cervix, uterus and ovaries at a localized and potentially curable stage decreases
with advancing age. Published national health practice patterns demonstrated a
similar age-related decline in gynecologic examinations and Pap smears even after
adjustment for the exclusion of women who would have undergone previous
hysterectomy. This decreasing use of gynecologic examinations may in part explain
the age-related decline in localized gynecologic cancers.

PMID: 2913782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):145-50.

Should the elderly be resuscitated following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest?

Tresch DD(1), Thakur RK, Hoffmann RG, Olson D, Brooks HL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

PURPOSE: Elderly and younger patients who were successfully resuscitated and
hospitalized following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest were studied to determine
if there was a significant difference in hospital course and long-term survival
between the two groups.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 214 consecutive patients, divided
into two age groups: elderly (more than 70 years, n = 112) and younger (less than
70 years, n = 102). Hospital charts and paramedic run data were retrospectively
reviewed for each patient and findings were compared between the two age groups.
RESULTS: Prior to cardiac arrest, 47 of 112 (42 percent) elderly patients had a
history of heart failure, compared with 19 of 102 (18 percent) younger patients, 
and were more commonly taking digitalis (51 percent versus 29 percent) and
diuretics (47 percent versus 26 percent). Younger patients, however, more often
had an acute myocardial infarction at the time of the cardiac arrest (33 percent 
versus 16 percent). At the time of cardiac arrest, 83 percent of younger patients
demonstrated ventricular fibrillation, compared with 71 percent of the elderly.
In contrast, electromechanical dissociation was five times more common in the
elderly patients. Although hospital deaths were more common in the elderly (71
percent versus 53 percent), the length of hospitalization and stay in intensive
care units were not significantly different between the age groups. The number of
neurologic deaths was similar in both age groups, as were residual neurologic
impairments. Only five elderly patients and six younger patients required
placement in extended-care facilities. Calculated long-term survival curves
demonstrated similar survival in both age groups, with approximately 65 percent
of hospital survivors alive at 24 months after hospital discharge.
CONCLUSION: Resuscitation of elderly patients in whom out-of-hospital cardiac
arrest occurs is reasonable and appropriate, according to the findings of this
study. Even though elderly patients are more likely than younger patients to die 
during hospitalization, the hospital stay of the elderly is not longer, the
elderly do not have more residual neurologic impairments, and survival after
hospital discharge is similar to that in younger patients.

PMID: 2913781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):173-7.

Mycobacterium chelonae: a cause of nodular skin lesions with a proclivity for
renal transplant recipients.

Cooper JF(1), Lichtenstein MJ, Graham BS, Schaffner W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville,
Tennessee 37232.

PURPOSE: Infections due to Mycobacterium chelonae are uncommon. Several renal
transplant recipients at our medical center have developed M. chelonae infections
during the past several years, so we decided to review our recent experience with
M. chelonae infections.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The clinical microbiology laboratory records of four
Vanderbilt University Affiliated Hospitals were reviewed. Ten patients with M.
chelonae tissue or blood infections were identified between 1982 and July 1988.
RESULTS: All infections involved the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Three
infections developed at the sites of medical injections. The remaining seven
infections occurred in renal transplant recipients and produced a clinically
distinctive syndrome. All were indolent tender nodular lesions on the
extremities, usually the lower legs. Systemic symptoms were absent, and white
blood cell counts were within normal limits. Diagnosis required tissue biopsy and
cultures that were incubated for a month. Therapy consisted of surgical excision 
combined with long-term antibiotics. Even so, some patients had a chronic,
relapsing course.
CONCLUSION: Although other diagnoses must be considered, the presumptive
diagnosis of M. chelonae infection is suggested by the appearance of nodular
erythematous lesions on the legs of a renal transplant recipient.

PMID: 2643868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):165-8.

Yeast connection among 100 patients with chronic fatigue.

Renfro L(1), Feder HM Jr, Lane TJ, Manu P, Matthews DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Family Medicine, University of Connecticut School of
Medicine, Farmington 06032.

PURPOSE: Patients with the "yeast connection" are characterized by fatigue and
multiple systemic symptoms. The purpose of our study was to compare patients with
chronic fatigue who believed they had the yeast connection to patients with
chronic fatigue without the yeast connection.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred consecutive patients with a chief complaint of 
chronic fatigue were evaluated in a specialty clinic setting at the University of
Connecticut Health Center. A complete history was obtained from each patient, and
a 168-item review of systems and a complete physical examination were performed.
RESULTS: Eight patients believed that their fatigue was due to chronic
candidiasis. Of these eight, seven had psychiatric diagnoses that were judged to 
underlie their fatigue. Of the remaining 92 patients with chronic fatigue, 59 had
underlying psychiatric diagnoses. We were unable to find historical, physical, or
laboratory differences between chronic fatigue patients with or without the yeast
connection.
CONCLUSION: From this study and a review of the literature, we are unable to
identify findings that are specific for the yeast connection.

PMID: 2643867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):158-64.

Fish-oil dietary supplementation in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon: a
double-blind, controlled, prospective study.

DiGiacomo RA(1), Kremer JM, Shah DM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Albany Medical College, New York 12208.

PURPOSE: The ingestion of omega-3 fatty acids could benefit patients with
Raynaud's phenomenon because, among other effects, these fatty acids induce a
favorable vascular response to ischemia. The aim of our study was to investigate,
in a double-blind, placebo-controlled manner, the effects of fish-oil fatty-acid 
dietary therapy in patients with rheumatic disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-two patients with primary or secondary Raynaud's
phenomenon were randomly assigned to olive-oil placebo or fish-oil groups.
Patients ingested 12 fish-oil capsules daily containing a total of 3.96 g
eicosapentaenoic acid and 2.64 g docosahexaenoic acid or 12 olive-oil capsules
and were evaluated at baseline and after six, 12, and 17 weeks. All patients
ingested olive oil between Weeks 12 to 17. Digital systolic blood pressures and
blood flow were measured at room air and water baths of 40 degrees C, 25 degrees 
C, 15 degrees C, and 10 degrees C using strain gauge plethysmography. Onset of
Raynaud's phenomenon was timed with a stop watch and defined as plethysmographic 
evidence of cessation of blood flow and blood pressure in the study finger.
RESULTS: In the fish-oil group, the median time interval before the onset of
Raynaud's phenomenon increased from 31.3 +/- 1.3 minutes baseline to 46.5 +/- 2.1
minutes at six weeks (p = 0.04). Patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon
ingesting fish oil had the greatest increase in the time interval before the
onset of the condition. Five of 11 patients (45.5 percent) with primary Raynaud's
phenomenon ingesting fish oil in whom the phenomenon was induced at baseline
could not be induced to develop Raynaud's at the six- or 12-week visit compared
with one of nine patients (11 percent) with primary Raynaud's ingesting olive oil
(p = 0.05). The mean digital systolic pressures were higher in the patients with 
primary Raynaud's phenomenon ingesting fish oil than in patients with primary
Raynaud's ingesting olive oil in the 10 degrees C water bath (+32 mm Hg, p =
0.02).
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the ingestion of fish oil improves tolerance to cold
exposure and delays the onset of vasospasm in patients with primary, but not
secondary, Raynaud's phenomenon. These improvements are associated with
significantly increased digital systolic blood pressures in cold temperatures.

PMID: 2536517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):178-82.

Treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes with recombinant human granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor: a preliminary report.

Kobayashi Y(1), Okabe T, Ozawa K, Chiba S, Hino M, Miyazono K, Urabe A, Takaku F.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: The expansion of an abnormal hemopoietic stem cell line is responsible
for the myelodysplastic syndromes, which are characterized by pancytopenias,
often resulting in lethal infections. Cloned granulocyte colony-stimulating
factor (G-CSF) was recently shown to enhance the growth and differentiation of
normal granulocyte progenitor cells in vitro. The aim of our study was to examine
the effects of recombinant human G-CSF in patients with myelodysplastic
syndromes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Four patients with myelodysplastic syndromes and one
patient with smoldering acute myelogenous leukemia following the occurrence of a 
myelodysplastic syndrome received recombinant human G-CSF by intravenous infusion
for six days. Patients received different dosage levels (50 to 1,600
micrograms/m2).
RESULTS: A response was seen in all patients, with an increase in both immature
myeloid cells in the bone marrow and mature granulocytes in the peripheral blood.
The dose levels that could stimulate granulocytopoiesis differed among patients.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that, at least in some cases of myelodysplastic
syndromes, granulocytopenia can be improved by G-CSF, although it still remains
to be determined whether the increase in the number of granulocytes is due to the
differentiation and maturation of the myelodysplastic clone or restoration of a
residual normal clone.

PMID: 2464280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):208-13.

Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) distribution shown by 99mtechnetium-LDL imaging in 
patients with myeloproliferative diseases.

Vallabhajosula S(1), Gilbert HS, Goldsmith SJ, Paidi M, Hanna MM, Ginsberg HN.

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To image and identify by noninvasive methods the sites of
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) catabolism in patients with myeloproliferative
disease in whom chronic hypocholesterolemia was previously reported.
STUDY DESIGN: The 99mTechnetium-LDL (Tc-LDL) distribution in patients with
myeloproliferative diseases was compared with that in normal subjects. The Tc-LDL
distribution was also compared with the distribution and organ uptake of a
macrophage-seeking radiotracer. 99mTc-sulfur colloid (Tc-SC).
SETTING: Major metropolitan referral center and institutional practice.
PATIENTS: Three normal subjects, two patients with polycythemia vera, two with
post polycythemia myeloid metaplasia, and one with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. 
The patients were being managed with hydroxyurea or phlebotomy.
INTERVENTION: Ten mCi of Tc-LDL (homologous) was injected intravenously.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Gamma camera images of Tc-LDL biodistribution and 
organ uptake were obtained 4 hours after injection of the tracer. In normal
subjects, the Tc-LDL was predominantly taken up by the liver, with relative
nonvisualization of spleen and central or peripheral marrow. Patients with
myeloproliferative disease showed marked splenic uptake of Tc-LDL. Peripheral
bone marrow uptake extended to the lower tibia in two patients with
post-polycythemia myeloid metaplasia. Splenic and bone marrow uptake paralleled
that of Tc-SC. Hypercellularity of central and peripheral marrow at the sites of 
Tc-LDL uptake was confirmed by biopsy specimens. The Tc-LDL uptake, however, was 
not correlated with collagen fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that spleen and bone marrow are sites of LDL 
catabolism in patients with myeloproliferative disease and suggest the role of
macrophages in the hypocholesterolemia and accelerated LDL catabolism of
myeloproliferative disease.

PMID: 2912361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):202-7.

Increased lung water and ascites after massive cocaine overdosage in mice and
improved survival related to beta-adrenergic blockage.

Robin ED(1), Wong RJ, Ptashne KA.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of massive cocaine intoxication on lung 
water and ascites accumulation and the effect of beta- and alpha-adrenergic
blockade on survival in massive cocaine intoxication in the mouse.
DESIGN: The effect of massive cocaine intoxication on lung water, ascitic fluid
accumulation, and survival following LD 100 doses of intravenous cocaine with and
without alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockade was determined.
INTERVENTIONS: Cocaine hydrochloride (0.15 mg/g body weight) was administered
intravenously with no other interventions; with propranolol hydrochloride
intravenously (0.5 mg per mouse) before and after cocaine; and with phentolamine 
intravenously (10.5 micrograms per mouse) before cocaine.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Intravenous cocaine hydrochloride resulted in an
increase in lung water (saline controls, 4.17 +/- 1.3 [standard deviation] mg
water per g mouse; cocaine hydrochloride, 5.94 +/- 0.9 mg water per g mouse; P
less than 0.002). Cocaine hydrochloride always resulted in the accumulation of
transudative ascitic fluid (saline controls, no measurable ascitic fluid; cocaine
administration, 20.2 +/- 12.9 micrograms per mouse; ascitic fluid protein
concentration, 23.5 +/- 8.5 g/L). Propranolol hydrochloride administered before
or after intravenous cocaine hydrochloride resulted in a striking reduction in
mortality (84 of 84 mice without propranolol died [mortality = 100%]; 7 of 39
mice with propranolol died [mortality = 18%]; P less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Massive cocaine intoxication is associated with increased lung water
and transudative ascites. Fluid accumulation is not prevented by either alpha- or
beta-adrenergic blockers. Propranolol, administered either before or after
cocaine, sharply reduces mortality. The results should be extrapolated to
treatment in humans with caution.

PMID: 2912360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):227-35.

Bilateral massive adrenal hemorrhage: early recognition and treatment.

Rao RH(1), Vagnucci AH, Amico JA.

Author information: 
(1)Montefiore Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):185.

PURPOSE: To develop a clinical perspective on bilateral massive adrenal
hemorrhage and an algorithm for its diagnosis and treatment.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Case reports were identified through a computer search using
MEDLIN (1976 to 1987), and from bibliographies in review articles (up to 1978).
STUDY SELECTION: Twelve reports published since 1978 were found.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data from 20 recently reported cases and 5 cases from personal
records were compared with data from 142 previously reported, autopsy-proven
cases summarized in a 1978 review article.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: Thromboembolic disease, coagulopathy, and the
postoperative state were the three major risk factors. Except for abdominal pain 
and remittent fever, clinical features were not helpful in diagnosis. A fall in
hemoglobin, and progressive biochemical hypoadrenalism were important clues.
Diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomography and an absent cortisol response to
intravenous corticotropin. Long-term follow-up showed complete atrophy and
functional failure of the adrenal gland.
CONCLUSIONS: Death from bilateral massive adrenal hemorrhage can be prevented by 
pre-emptive steroid therapy in high-risk patients who have certain clinical and
laboratory features.

PMID: 2643380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):195-201.

Tachyphylaxis with amrinone therapy: association with sequestration and
down-regulation of lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptors.

Maisel AS(1), Wright CM, Carter SM, Ziegler M, Motulsky HJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether intravenous therapy with amrinone changes
number, location or function of the beta-adrenergic receptors on lymphocytes.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: Veterans hospital coronary care unit.
PATIENTS: Eleven patients with decompensated class III or IV heart failure.
INTERVENTIONS: A bolus of intravenous amrinone followed by a continuous infusion 
at 10 micrograms/kg.min for 72 hours.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At 24 to 36 hours there was a reduction in
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (35%), right atrial pressure (20%), and
systemic vascular resistance (25%) with an increase in cardiac output (30%). By
72 hours all these parameters had returned nearly to baseline levels. This
partial cardiovascular tolerance to amrinone was accompanied by a 126% increase
in the plasma epinephrine, a 182% increase in norepinephrine, a 31% decrease in
the number of beta-adrenergic receptors on lymphocytes, and a 36% decrease in
isoproterenol-stimulated cyclicadenosine monophosphate on lymphocytes. The number
of sequestered receptors doubled during the treatment, and the extent of
sequestration correlated well with the extent of receptor down-regulation.
CONCLUSIONS: The hemodynamic responses to amrinone had virtually returned to
baseline by 72 hours. This tolerance was accompanied by increased plasma
catecholamines, and a down-regulation, desensitization, and sequestration of
beta-adrenergic receptors on lymphocytes. We suggest that these receptor changes 
also occur in cardiovascular tissues and may in part account for the tolerance to
amrinone.

PMID: 2536258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):189-94.

Circulating p24 antigen levels and responses to dideoxycytidine in human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections. A phase I and II study.

Merigan TC(1), Skowron G, Bozzette SA, Richman D, Uttamchandani R, Fischl M,
Schooley R, Hirsch M, Soo W, Pettinelli C, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the safety and efficacy of dideoxycytidine in
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or advanced
AIDS-related complex.
DESIGN: A partially randomized phase I and II outpatient, dose-ranging study.
SETTING: Four university medical centers involving government-supported referral 
AIDS Clinical Trial Units.
PATIENTS: Sixty-one patients with AIDS or advanced AIDS-related complex and 100
pg/mL or more serum p24 antigen titers.
INTERVENTIONS: Dideoxycytidine was administered orally at 0.06, 0.03, 0.01, or
0.005 mg/kg body weight every 4 hours for 3 to 6 months depending on tolerance
and benefit.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In patients receiving 0.06 and 0.03 mg/kg, diffuse
erythematous rash, fever, and aphthous stomatitis occurred in the first weeks of 
therapy, but resolved later. Hematopoietic suppression was rare. Peripheral
sensory neuropathy occurred in patients receiving 0.06 mg/kg and 0.03 mg/kg and
improved after discontinuation of therapy. Serum p24 antigen fell significantly
(P less than 0.01) from baseline entry values in most of these patients. The CD4 
lymphocytes rose transiently at the 0.03 mg/kg dosage. At the 0.005 mg/kg dosage,
skin rash, fever, and aphthous stomatitis were mild or absent. Peripheral
neuropathy, which occurred in all patients receiving 0.01 mg/kg was less severe
than at higher dosages. At the 0.005 mg/kg dosage, peripheral neuropathy was
occasionally seen. Significant suppression of serum p24 antigen was seen in most 
patients with AIDS-related complex receiving 0.01 mg/kg and less frequently in
patients receiving 0.005 mg/kg.
CONCLUSIONS: Less toxic regimens of dideoxycytidine merit clinical assessment for
advanced anti-human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV) infection. Several studies
alternating dideoxycytidine and zidovudine are in progress.

PMID: 2536257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Feb 1;110(3):183-8.

Oral dextran sulfate (UA001) in the treatment of the acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related complex.

Abrams DI(1), Kuno S, Wong R, Jeffords K, Nash M, Molaghan JB, Gorter R, Ueno R.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the tolerance and safety of oral dextran sulfate
(UA001), a potent in-vitro inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related
complex.
DESIGN: Unblinded, dose-escalation 8-week trial.
SETTING: An AIDS outpatient clinic of a university-affiliated municipal hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty-four patients with stage III or IV HIV infection were enrolled. 
Five patients in six different dosage cohorts completed the study. The population
was predominantly homosexual men with persistent generalized lymphadenopathy
(stage III).
INTERVENTIONS: Oral dextran sulfate was given three times daily in total daily
doses of 900 to 5400 mg for 8 weeks. Patients were monitored for tolerance and
toxicity. Immunologic and virologic values were also followed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Oral dextran sulfate was given without significant
side effects. The commonest minor subjective complications were mental
hyperexcitability and gastrointestinal complaints. The most frequent laboratory
abnormalities were leukopenia and hepatic transaminase elevations. Eleven
patients required dose reductions, and therapy was stopped in 4 because of
toxicities. The CD4 lymphocyte numbers did not change appreciably. No decline in 
beta-2 microglobulin levels occurred. The HIV antigen levels were unchanged from 
baseline. No assay for dextran sulfate plasma levels has yet proven successful.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral dextran sulfate appears to be well tolerated. No evidence of
systemic absorption of the parent compound is available. However, in view of the 
promising in vitro effects and acceptable toxicity, oral dextran sulfate as a
potential antiretroviral agent continues to be studied.

PMID: 2463780  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Biochimie. 1989 Feb;71(2):247-62.

In vitro studies of the thyroglobulin degradation pathway: endocytosis and
delivery of thyroglobulin to lysosomes, release of thyroglobulin cleavage
products--iodotyrosines and iodothyronines.

Rousset B(1), Selmi S, Alquier C, Bourgeat P, Orelle B, Audebet C, Rabilloud R,
Bernier-Valentin F, Munari-Silem Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, U197, Faculté de
Médecine Alexis-Carrel, Lyon, France.

Iodinated thyroglobulin stored in the thyroid follicular lumen is subjected to an
internalization process and thought to be transferred into the lysosomal
compartment for proteolytic cleavage and thyroid hormone release. In the present 
study, we have designed in vitro models to study: 1) the transfer of endocytosed 
thyroglobulin into lysosomes, and 2) the intracellular fate of free thyroid
hormones and iodinated precursors generated by intralysosomal proteolysis of
thyroglobulin. Open follicles prepared from pig thyroid tissue by collagenase
treatment were used to probe the delivery of exogenous thyroglobulin to lysosomes
via the differentiated apical cell membrane. Open follicles were incubated with
pure [125I]thyroglobulin with or without unlabeled thyroglobulin in the presence 
or in the absence of chloroquine. Subcellular fractionation on a Percoll gradient
showed that [125I]thyroglobulin was internalized and present in low (for the
major part) and high density thyroid vesicles. In chloroquine-treated open
follicles, we observed the appearance of a definite fraction of
[125I]thyroglobulin in a lysosome subpopulation having the expected properties of
phagolysosomes or secondary lysosomes. In contrast, in control open follicles,
the amount of [125I]thyroglobulin or degradation products found in high density
vesicles was lower and associated with the bulk of lysosomes, i.e., primary
lysosomes. The content in thyroglobulin and degradation products of lysosomes at 
steady-state was analyzed by Western blot using polyclonal anti-pig thyroglobulin
antibodies. Under reducing conditions, immunoreactive thyroglobulin species
correspond to polypeptides with molecular weights ranging from 130,000 to less
than 20,000. The presence of free thyroid hormones and iodotyrosines inside
lysosomes and their intracellular fate was studied in dispersed thyroid cells
labeled with [125I]iodide. Neo-iodinated [125I]thyroglobulin gave rise to free
[125I]T4 which was secreted into the medium. In addition to released [125I]T4, a 
fraction of free [125I]T4 was identified inside the cells. Lysosomes isolated
from dispersed thyroid cells did not contain significant amounts of free
[125I]T4. The free intracellular [125I]T4 fraction seems to represent an
intermediate 'hormonal pool' between thyroglobulin-bound T4 and secreted T4.
Evidence for such a precursor-product relationship was obtained from pulse-chase 
experiments.IN CONCLUSION: 1) open thyroid follicles have the ability to
internalize thyroglobulin by a mechanism of limited capacity and to address the
endocytosed ligand to lysosomes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2495825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Chest. 1989 Feb;95(2):320-4.

Survival time of patients with pleural metastatic carcinoma predicted by glucose 
and pH studies.

Rodriguez-Panadero F(1), Lopez-Mejias J.

Author information: 
(1)Pneumology Service, Virgen del Rocio Hospital, Seville, Spain.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the survival time of patients with pleural
metastatic carcinoma diagnosed by thoracoscopy, as related to the pleural glucose
and pH levels, and to the extension of pleural neoplastic lesions.
DESIGN: Cohort analytic prospective study. Follow-up of the patients from
diagnostic thoracoscopy to death (range: one to 29 months).
SETTING: Referral Pneumology Service at a Tertiary Care Center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 50 patients with pleural metastatic carcinoma
diagnosed by thoracoscopy. Three patients were lost in the follow-up.
INTERVENTIONS: Talc pleurodesis was performed after diagnosis and with the same
technique in every case.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: In all the cases, the extension of the tumorous lesions
was determined by thoracoscopy (classified on a scale from 0 to 9) and the
survival time was studied from the time that thoracoscopic diagnosis was made. On
the same or the previous day as the exploration, blood and pleural fluid glucose 
levels as well as arterial and pleural pH and gas tensions were determined.

PMID: 2914482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Chest. 1989 Feb;95(2):284-91.

Acute inferior vena cava thrombosis. Early results of heparin therapy.

Girard P(1), Hauuy MP, Musset D, Simonneau G, Petitpretz P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie et Réanimation, Université Paris-Sud, Hôpital Antoine
Béclère, Clamart, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine, during heparin therapy, the embolic risk
associated with acute inferior vena cava thrombosis compared with noncaval
thrombosis.
DESIGN: Prospective controlled study.
SETTING: University-affiliated general hospital.
PATIENTS: Of 68 consecutive patients considered, 18 with cavographically proved
inferior vena cava thrombosis and 45 with phlebography-proved noncaval proximal
thrombosis met all other eligibility criteria and completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients received adjusted continuous IV heparin therapy for
ten days.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: All 63 patients underwent systematic baseline and "day 
10" perfusion lung scanning and phlebocavography. None suffered pulmonary
embolism within the ten days, but 11/63 patients showed thrombus extension on day
10 phlebocavograms. Retrospectively, no significant difference could be found
between the groups with and without extension.
CONCLUSIONS: (a) The early embolic risk associated with heparin-treated venous
thromboses appears low and does not seem to depend on the location (caval or more
peripheral) of venous clots. (b) Thrombus extension may occur in spite of
apparently "adequate" anticoagulation with heparin.

PMID: 2914476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Chest. 1989 Feb;95(2):274-8.

Nocturnal oxygen therapy does not improve snorers' intelligence.

Block AJ(1), Hellard DW, Switzer DA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Florida Medical Center, Gainesville.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether nasal oxygen therapy at 2 L/min would (1)
reverse nocturnal hypoxemia and (2) improve neuropsychologic function in men who 
snore heavily.
DESIGN: To select heavy-snoring subjects for a treatment protocol, volunteers
were screened for one night, breathing air the first half and oxygen the second
half of the night. If nocturnal oxygen desaturation occurred in the first half
and was improved in the second half of the night, the subject entered a two-month
treatment program. In random order, either nocturnal air or nocturnal oxygen was 
administered for one month each at 2 L/min in a double-blind crossover design.
Neuropsychologic testing was done before and after each month.
SETTING: Oxygen concentrators were modified to produce either greater than 96
percent oxygen or air at 2 L/min. Machines were delivered to the home of the
subject and the machines were used each night, administering inspirate by nasal
cannula.
PARTICIPANTS: Seventeen asymptomatic men who snored heavily and volunteered for
minimal payment of $75.
INTERVENTIONS: Air was administered for one month, and oxygen was administered
for one month.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: On the screening night, oxygen administration did not
improve obstructive sleep apnea, but did improve oxygenation. After one month of 
oxygen therapy at night, there was no significant benefit to multiple measures of
neuropsychologic function.
CONCLUSION: In this study, oxygen therapy at night had no effect on
neuropsychologic function in men who snore heavily.

PMID: 2914474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Endocrinology. 1989 Feb;124(2):1050-5.

The peak phase of the proestrous prolactin surge is blocked by either posterior
pituitary lobectomy or antisera to vasoactive intestinal peptide.

Murai I(1), Reichlin S, Ben-Jonathan N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46223.

The proestrous surge of PRL could result from a decrease in dopamine, an increase
in PRL-releasing factor (PRF) or both. The objectives were to determine whether
PRF from the posterior pituitary regulates the proestrous PRL surge, and to
examine if there are interactions between PRF and vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP). Posterior pituitary lobectomy (LOBEX) and passive immunization against VIP
were employed. Adult cycling rats were subjected at 0900 h on proestrus to LOBEX 
or sham surgery (SHAM) under short term anesthesia, and were injected iv at 1330 
h with 0.75 ml anti-VIP serum or normal rabbit serum. Jugular blood was collected
hourly from 1400-2300 h and analyzed for PRL and LH by RIA. Oviductal ova were
examined on estrus. The rise in plasma PRL in normal rabbit serum-treated SHAM
rats was biphasic, with an early peak between 1500-1700 h and a lower plateau
between 1900-2100 h. This rise was similar in profile and magnitude to that seen 
in intact rats. In contrast, LOBEX significantly attenuated the early peak, but
did not alter the plateau. Passive immunization against VIP of either SHAM or
LOBEX rats mimicked the effect of LOBEX alone on PRL release. Neither surgery nor
anti-VIP serum affected the profile of the LH surge which was sharp and
symmetrical, and all rats ovulated with 15-16 ova per rat. To determine whether
VIP is the posterior pituitary PRF, selected tissues removed on proestrus or
diestrus-1 were analyzed for VIP by RIA. VIP was undetectable (less than 20
pg/organ) in the posterior pituitary on either day examined. The contents of VIP 
in the anterior pituitary, medial basal hypothalamus, and paraventricular nuclei 
were unchanged between diestrus-1 and proestrus.CONCLUSIONS: The proestrous surge
of PRL consists of two components: an early peak and a late plateau. The peak
phase appears to be dependent on PRF input from the posterior pituitary. This
input might be regulated by VIP, and interactions between the two could occur at 
the level of the hypothalamus, anterior pituitary, or both. The plateau phase of 
the PRL surge is independent of the posterior pituitary and VIP, and might
involve hypothalamic dopamine.

PMID: 2492217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Int J Cardiol. 1989 Feb;22(2):195-202.

Assessment of right ventricular function in acute inferior myocardial infarction 
using 133-xenon imaging.

McGhie I(1), Martin W, Tweddel A, Hutton I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Cardiology, Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, U.K.

The detection of right ventricular dysfunction in acute inferior myocardial
infarction is important because of its potentially serious consequences which may
be remediable with the appropriate therapeutic manoeuvres. A technique has been
developed to assess right ventricular function using 133-xenon. This technique
was applied to 26 patients who had sustained an acute inferior myocardial
infarction. Right ventricular ejection fractions ranged from 7-54%, mean 30 +/-
11%, which was significantly lower than values obtained from normal volunteers (n
= 21), mean 43 +/- 5%, and patients with arteriographically proven coronary
artery disease without previous myocardial infarction (n = 12), mean 39 +/- 9%, P
less than 0.001, and P less than 0.001, respectively. In the patients with acute 
inferior myocardial infarction 18 patients (69%) had evidence of right
ventricular dysfunction (right ventricular ejection fraction less than 35%).
13/26 patients (50%) had clinical evidence of right ventricular dysfunction with 
a mean right ventricular ejection fraction 26 +/- 11% (range 7-54%) which was
significantly lower than the patients without evidence of right ventricular
dysfunction, mean 35 +/- 9% (range 16-49%), P less than 0.001. The clinical signs
had a sensitivity of 72% (13/18), a specificity of 87.5% (7/8) and a predictive
accuracy of 76% (20/26) when compared to the imaging data.IN CONCLUSION: (1)
gated 133-xenon imaging provides a method for assessing right ventricular
function in the setting of acute myocardial infarction; (2) a wide spectrum of
right ventricular dysfunction occurs following inferior myocardial infarction
which may not manifest itself clinically.

PMID: 2914743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Pediatr. 1989 Feb;114(2):204-12.

Bone mineral content, serum vitamin D metabolite concentrations, and ultraviolet 
B light exposure in infants fed human milk with and without vitamin D2
supplements.

Greer FR(1), Marshall S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin, Madison.

OBJECTIVE: To monitor ultraviolet B light exposure in human milk-fed infants both
with and without supplemental vitamin D2, and to measure longitudinally the bone 
mineral content, growth, and serum concentrations of calcium, phosphorus,
25-hydroxyvitamin D3, 25-hydroxyvitamin D2, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, and
parathyroid hormone.
DESIGN: Longitudinal, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 6
months' duration.
SETTING: Patients from private pediatric practice, Madison, Wisconsin.
PATIENTS: Sequential sampling of 46 human milk-fed white infants; 24 received 400
IU/day of vitamin D2, and 22 received placebo. An additional 12 patients were
followed who received standard infant formula. Eighty-three percent of patients
completed a full 6 months of the study.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Ultraviolet B light exposure and measurements of growth
did not differ between groups. At 6 months, the human milk groups did not differ 
significantly in bone mineral content or serum concentrations of parathyroid
hormone or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, although total 25-hydroxyvitamin D values
were significantly less in the unsupplemented human milk group (23.53 +/- 9.94 vs
36.96 +/- 11.86 ng/ml; p less than 0.01). However, 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 serum
concentrations were significantly higher in the unsupplemented human milk-fed
group compared with the supplemented group (21.77 +/- 9.73 vs 11.74 +/- 10.27
ng/ml, p less than 0.01) by 6 months of age.
CONCLUSION: Unsupplemented, human milk-fed infants had no evidence of vitamin D
deficiency during the first 6 months of life.

PMID: 2783734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Pediatr. 1989 Feb;114(2):218-24.

Human milk and the rate of small intestinal mucosal recovery in protracted
diarrhea.

Shulman RJ(1), Lifschitz CH, Langston C, Gopalakrishna GS, Nichols BL.

Author information: 
(1)USDA/ARS Children's Nutrition Research Center, Department of Pediatrics, Houston,
TX 77030.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether human milk accelerates the recovery rate of
injured small intestinal mucosa.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial.
SETTING: County and nonprofit, private urban hospitals.
PATIENTS: Moderately to severely malnourished infants less than 6 months of age
who required parenteral nutrition for treatment of protracted diarrhea.
INTERVENTIONS: Either a human milk preparation (n = 7) or sterile water (n = 9)
was administered by continuous nasogastric feeding (14 mL/kg/d) over a 2-week
study period while the infants received parenteral nutrition.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Small intestine perfusion studies and biopsies
were performed at the beginning and end of the study. Age, duration of prior
illness, severity of malnutrition, glucose and water absorption, disaccharidase
activities, atrophy of villi, and nutritional intake were comparable in both
groups of infants. At the end of the 2-week study, improvement toward normal
sucrase activity and intraepithelial lymphocytes was found in significantly fewer
infants in the milk group than in the water group. No differences were noted in
glucose and water absorption or in lactase and maltase activities as a function
of the milk versus water treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Human milk did not accelerate functional recovery of the small
intestinal mucosa.

PIP: Physicians studied 16 moderately to severely malnourished infants 6 months
old who had severe diarrhea for 2 weeks and did not gain weight. After admitting 
the infants, they administered total parenteral nutrition (TPN) to the infants
through a central vein. As the infants began receiving TPN, they were randomly
assigned to receive either banked human milk or sterile water by continuous
nasogastric feeding for 2 weeks. In addition, before beginning nasogastric
feedings and at the conclusion of the study, a physician performed a peroral
biopsy of the small intestine. Small intestine perfusion studies were also done
in the beginning and at the end of the 2 week period. More infants in the human
milk group than in the sterile water group had 25% decrease in sucrase activity
(p.02). Researchers noted that the villus/crypt ratio was similar in both groups 
at the beginning of the study and improved only in the sterile water group
(p.002), but this was not a function of treatment. Additionally, more infants in 
the human milk group had an increase in the intraepithelial lymphocyte count than
those in the sterile water group (milk, 5/7; water, 1/8; p.03). On the other
hand, the data demonstrate that no differences existed in glucose and water
absorption or in lactase and maltase activities as a function of the milk versus 
water treatment. Therefore, the results of this study suggest that human milk
does not benefit small intestine mucosa recovery. Research to determine the
effect of predigested formulas or specific factors in fresh human milk on the
rate of mucosal recovery is needed.
PMID: 2492597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 1989 Feb;35(2):85-9.

A biphasic response of urinary prostaglandin E2 excretion to water deprivation in
conscious diabetes insipidus Brattleboro rats.

Kanters JK(1), Holstein-Rathlou NH, Christensen P, Leyssac PP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Panum Institute, Copenhagen N, Denmark.

The effects of water deprivation on the urinary excretion rate of prostaglandin
E2 (PGE2) were examined in conscious Brattleboro rats. In order to study the time
course of the changes in the PGE2 excretory rate, urine was collected in 6
periods,CONTROL: 0-1 hour (h.). 1: 3-4.5 h., 8-10 h., III: 12-15 h., IV: 24-28 h.
and V: 32-36 h. after removal of water and food. It was found that the PGE2
excretion rate changed in a biphasic pattern. During the first 2 experimental
periods it increased. Thereafter it decreased towards the control value. There
was an increase in PGE2 excretion with urinary flows down to 3
microliter/(min*100 g b. wt). At further reductions in urinary flow rate, PG
excretion decreased towards basal levels.

PMID: 2717654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Feb;8(2):95-101.

[Comparison of Holter electrocardiography and thallium 201 scintigraphy in the
detection of myocardial ischemia].

[Article in Portuguese]

Correia MJ, Rebelo JR, Cantinho G, Botas L, Longo A, dos Remédios J, Machado AP, 
Tuna JL, Ferreira R, Godinho F, et al.

OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY: To compare ischemic changes (I) detected by Holter ECG (H
ECG) to the myocardial perfusion defects found in 201 TI myocardial perfusion
scintigraphy.
DESIGN: 201 TI exercise test was made during the performance of a 24 hours H ECG.
The validation of ST segment changes detected by H ECG during the exercise test
was made on basis of reversible myocardial perfusion defects (RPD) detected on
201 TL and a relation between ST segment changes detected during the remaining 24
hours recording period and 201 TI (TI) RPD was established.
SETTING: The patients (pt) included in the study have come from Cardiology and
Heart Surgery Clinics of a Central teaching hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 20 pt with a high coronary artery disease prevalence have
been submitted to a two lead (V5 and aVF) 24 hour H ECG during which they have
performed a symptom limited bicycle exercise test followed by an injection of 201
TI with acquisition 5 minutes later. Ischemic episodes detected on H ECG were
quantified and their relation with heart rate and symptoms was established. As
far as 201 TI studies are concerned the fixed and reversible perfusion defects as
well as their location were evaluated.
RESULTS: 1. H ECG: 6 pt (30%) presented ST changes on H ECG during the exercise
test and a total of 9 pt (45%) had ST changes during exercise and during the
remaining period of H ECG. 2. TI: 19 pt presented perfusion defects images (fixed
in 7, reversible in 14, both kinds of defects in 7). 3. H ECG validation: H ECG
during exercise presented I in 6 out of 14 pt with RPD on TI (sensitivity = 43%).
Six of these 8 pt, with negative H and positive TI, had a chronic myocardial
infarction. All the 6 pt with negative TI had negative H ECG (specificity =
100%). 4. H ECG TI comparison: 7 (50%) of the 14 pt with RPD had ST changes on 24
hrs H ECG. Seven of 11 pt with negative H ECG had RPD in TI. Two pt with negative
TI had positive H ECG. These 2 pt had during H ECG a higher heart rate (HR) than 
the HR recorded during the exercise test.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. In pt with known CAD, TI has a high sensitivity and specificity
to show perfusion defects. 2. Considering TI as gold standard, H ECG showed to be
a useful method to detect I in the studied population (sens. = 43%; spec. =
100%). 3. H ECG revealed to be an important diagnostic tool in detecting
additional I episodes beyond the ones recorded during TI exercise test.

PMID: 2631839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Feb;8(2):105-9.

[Holter ECG in evaluating myocardial ischemia. Validation using the exercise
test].

[Article in Portuguese]

Longo A, Remédios J, Correia MJ, Morais C, Botas L, Bordalo A, Neves L, Tuna JL, 
Ribeiro C.

OBJECTIVES: Validation of ST-T ischemic changes in the Holter system by those
recorded in the 12-lead ECG during the exercise test.
DESIGN: The changes induced by the exercise test in the ST segment of the two
Holter leads--aVF e V5 like--were compared with the changes simultaneously
registered in the 12-lead ECG.
SETTING: Exercise Test Laboratory and Holter Laboratory of the UTIC-Arsénio
Cordeiro. Hospital de Santa Maria de Lisboa.
PATIENTS: 31 patients, 23 male and 8 female, with a mean age of 55 +/- 7 years,
84% with ischemic heart disease.
METHODS: The patients underwent a treadmill exercise test. 28 with the Bruce
protocol and 3 with the Naugton protocol, during which the electrocardiogram was 
registered simultaneously with a 2-channel Holter recorder and by a conventional 
12-lead system. The changes induced in the ST segment in the two systems were
compared.
RESULTS: The results of the two tests were concordant in 94% of the patients. In 
4 patients (13%) there was not a good correlation between the inferior and
anterior leads of the two methods, which diverged mainly between the Holter lead 
aVF and the inferior leads of the conventional ECG. The morphology of the ST
depression was similar in both methods, and the severity of ST depression as
judged by its amplitude showed an excellent positive linear correlation (r =
0.8542, p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The sensitivity and the specificity of the Holter system is similar 
to the conventional 12-lead ECG in detecting ischemic changes during exercise
whenever they have electrocardiographic evidence.

PMID: 2631836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1989 Feb;37(1):20-7.

Ten years electrophysiologically guided direct operations for malignant ischemic 
ventricular tachycardia--results.

Ostermeyer J(1), Kirklin JK, Borggrefe M, Cox JL, Breithardt G, Bircks W.

Author information: 
(1)University of Düsseldorf, Department of Surgery, FRG.

During the recent 10 years period worldwide more than 1000 patients underwent an 
electrophysiologically guided direct operation for malignant ventricular
tachycardia in the setting of chronic ischemic heart disease. The published
results of these operations as regards relief of ventricular tachycardia and
survival are highly variable. The data presented here are largely based on a
multi-institutional registry series (n = 665) and the combined
Düsseldorf-Birmingham/Alabama (DUS-UAB) ventricular tachycardia surgery
experience (n = 216).DATA: Survival (hospital deaths included) was 75% one year
after operation and 45% at 5 years (DUS-UAB). The respective data of the registry
series were 78% and 55%. The most prevalent mode of death in both analyses was
acute/subacute/chronic heart failure. More extensive encircling procedures
(incisional/cryo) for ventricular tachycardia ablation and the combination of
encircling cryoablation and endocardial resection increased the risk of
progressive left ventricular dysfunction and death; however, by multivariate
analysis the severity of the underlying ischemic heart disease (indicated by NYHA
functional class, LVEDP, No. of previous infarcts, and extensiveness of coronary 
disease) and the absence of a discrete left ventricular aneurysm were more
powerful predictors for early and late postoperative mortality than the use of
alternative surgical techniques for ventricular tachycardia ablation. Survival
was particularly poor after the return of spontaneous sustained ventricular
tachycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2646759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 1989 Feb;9(2):91-2, 69.

[Exploration between shen and ear by auditory determination in patients with
renal disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang JX, Wang FQ, Chen HY.

Hearing determination of 51 cases had been made to observe and explore the TCM
pathogenic relation between the collateral channels of Shen and ears. Model
51A-T72N pure tone auditional determinator was used. For each case, routine
auditional determination was made after rest in bed quietly for an hour after
breakfast. The determinating results were divided into normal (average hearing
loss less than 15dB), low frequency, high frequency and plain-typing hearing
loss.RESULTS: Among the 51 cases, 8 cases were normal hearing (15.7%), the
hearing loss cases were 43 (84.3%); 30 cases were double-ear hearing loss
(58.8%); 13 cases were single ear hearing loss (25.5%). Cases of renal diseases
frequently occurred among the young (in this group, average age was 29.5 years). 
Such high incidence was obviously non-physiological, but related to the renal
disease itself. More serious hearing damage were seen and were in high frequency.
Whether or not it was caused by hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and deprivation in blood
vessel leading to disorder of circulation of sound sensitizen, or accumulation of
toxin owing to renal dysfunction, or changing composition of endolymph
influencing the hearing bristle cells, further research should be done in the
near future.

PMID: 2736694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


790. BMJ. 1989 Jan 28;298(6668):227-30.

Sodium restriction and blood pressure in hypertensive type II diabetics:
randomised blind controlled and crossover studies of moderate sodium restriction 
and sodium supplementation.

Dodson PM(1), Beevers M, Hallworth R, Webberley MJ, Fletcher RF, Taylor KG.

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes and Endocrine Unit, Dudley Road Hospital, Birmingham.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of moderate dietary sodium restriction on the 
hypertension of non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes.
DESIGN: Randomised parallel controlled study of moderate sodium restriction for
three months compared with usual diabetic diet, followed by randomised double
blind crossover trial of sustained release preparation of sodium for one month
versus placebo for one month in patients continuing with sodium restriction.
SETTING: Patients attending diabetic outpatient clinic of city hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty four patients with established type II diabetes complicated by
mild hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm Hg or diastolic
pressure greater than 95 mm Hg on three consecutive occasions). Patients already 
taking antihypertensive agents (but not diuretics) not barred from study provided
that criteria for mild hypertension still met. Conditions precluding patients
from study were diabetic or hypertensive nephropathy, cardiac failure, and
pregnancy.
INTERVENTIONS: After run in phase with recordings at seven weeks, three weeks,
and time zero patients were allocated at random to receive moderate dietary
sodium restriction for three months (n = 17) or to continue with usual diabetic
diet. Subsequently nine patients in sodium restriction group continued with
regimen for a further two months, during which they completed a randomised double
blind crossover trial of sustained release preparation of sodium (Slow Sodium 80 
mmol daily) for one month versus matching placebo for one month.
END POINT: Reduction in blood pressure in type II diabetics with mild
hypertension.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Supine and erect blood pressure, body weight, and 
24 hour urinary sodium and potassium excretion measured monthly during parallel
group and double blind crossover studies. After parallel group study sodium
restriction group showed significant reduction in systolic blood pressure (supine
19.2 mm Hg, erect 21.4 mm Hg; p less than 0.001) and mean daily urinary sodium
excretion (mean reduction 60 mmol/24 h). There were no appreciable changes in
weight, diabetic control, or diastolic pressure. No significant changes occurred 
in controls. In double blind crossover study mean supine systolic blood pressure 
rose significantly (p less than 0.005) during sodium supplementation (to 171 mm
Hg) compared with value after three months of sodium restriction alone (159.9 mm 
Hg) and after one month of placebo (161.8 mm Hg).
CONCLUSIONS: Moderate dietary restriction of sodium has a definite hypotensive
effect, which may be useful in mild hypertension of type II diabetes.

PMCID: PMC1835532
PMID: 2493869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. BMJ. 1989 Jan 28;298(6668):223-6.

Counselling in a general practice setting: controlled study of health visitor
intervention in treatment of postnatal depression.

Holden JM(1), Sagovsky R, Cox JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Edinburgh.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether counselling by health visitors is helpful in
managing postnatal depression.
DESIGN: Controlled, random order trial.
SETTING: Health centres in Edinburgh and Livingston.
PATIENTS: Sixty women identified as depressed by screening at six weeks post
partum and by psychiatric interview at about 13 weeks post partum. Five women did
not wish to participate, and a further five did not complete the trial. Age,
social and obstetric factors, and diagnosis were similar in women who completed
the trial and those who withdrew.
INTERVENTION: Eight weekly counselling visits by health visitors who had been
given a short training in counselling for postnatal depression.
END POINT: Reduction of depression. MEASUREMENTS and main results--Standardised
psychiatric interviews and a 10 point self report scale were used to identify
depression before and after intervention. The psychiatrist was not told to which 
group women were allocated. After three months 18 (69%) of the 26 women in the
treatment group had fully recovered compared with nine (38%) of the 24 in the
control group. The difference between the groups was thus 32% (95% confidence
interval 5 to 58).
CONCLUSIONS: Counselling by health visitors is valuable in managing non-psychotic
postnatal depression.

PMCID: PMC1835559
PMID: 2493868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. BMJ. 1989 Jan 21;298(6667):147-51.

Risk of endometrial cancer after treatment with oestrogens alone or in
conjunction with progestogens: results of a prospective study.

Persson I(1), Adami HO, Bergkvist L, Lindgren A, Pettersson B, Hoover R, Schairer
C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative risk of developing endometrial neoplasia
after treatment with oestrogens alone or in conjunction with progestogens.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort follow up study, average observation period 5.7 years 
for each patient. To have a 90% chance of detecting a relative risk of 2.0 with
95% significance the study required 78,000 person years of observation.
SETTING: Community based cohort.
PATIENTS: Women aged over 35 who were prescribed non-contraceptive oestrogens in 
the Uppsala health care region during April 1977 to March 1980 were identified
from pharmacy records. Of all prescriptions issued, 95% were identified. Patients
from the cohort who developed endometrial neoplasia were identified from the
cancer registry of the Uppsala health care region. Compliance, sociodemographic
data, and lifetime exposures to oestrogen and cyclically added progestogen were
assessed by questionnaire in a sample of the cohort. The final cohort consisted
of 23,244 patients (133,373 person years). The prevalence of university
education, oophorectomy, and hysterectomy was higher in the cohort than the
general population; no other confounding factors were identified.
MEASUREMENTS: The total number of person years was divided into exposure groups
by inference from the data from the questionnaire. Compensation was made for the 
excess of hysterectomies. Specimens from all cases of endometrial neoplasia in
the cohort and 90% of cases in the general population were studied blind
histopathologically. Characteristics of treatment of all women who had
endometrial neoplasia were assessed by questionnaire. Relative risks and 95%
confidence intervals were calculated.
RESULTS: Seventy four cases of carcinoma and 33 cases of premalignant lesions
occurred in the cohort. The relative risk of endometrial carcinoma was 1.8 (95%
confidence interval 1.1 to 3.2) after exposure to any oestrogen compound without 
progestogen for more than six years; 2.2 (1.2 to 4.4) after more than three
years' exposure to conjugated oestrogens without progestogen; and 2.7 (1.4 to
5.1) after more than three years' exposure to oestradiol compounds without
progestogen. When carcinoma and premalignant lesions were considered together the
results were similar but the relative risk was higher. Risk of carcinoma did not 
increase when progestogens were cyclically added to oestrogens for the entire
treatment period (relative risk 0.9 (0.4 to 2.0].
CONCLUSIONS: Use of oestrogens without progestogens is associated with a twofold 
to threefold increase in risk of endometrial neoplasia. Use of progestogens
either removes this increased risk or delays its onset. A further follow up of
the cohort is essential to analyse the risks with greater statistical power.

PMCID: PMC1835464
PMID: 2538173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):151-60.

Health science information management and continuing education of physicians. A
survey of U.S. primary care practitioners and their opinion leaders.

Williamson JW(1), German PS, Weiss R, Skinner EA, Bowes F 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Salt Lake City VA Medical Center, Utah.

PURPOSE: To identify self-perceived problems in managing science information
needs of U.S. primary practitioners and their opinion leaders.
SAMPLE: A two-stage random sample of the American Medical Association's
"Masterlist of Physicians" to identify 625 office-based physicians, including
general practice, family practice, internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, 
and pediatrics, and 100 physician opinion leaders.
DATA COLLECTION: A formal telephone survey was completed for 79% of practitioners
and 90% of opinion leaders sampled, using a pretested instrument applied by
trained telephone surveyors.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: Both practitioners and opinion leaders claimed that
published reviews were the most useful means of identifying their information
needs. When asked about use of six recent clinical advances, that is, "markers," 
for example, hemoglobin-A1C for diabetic control, as many as one fifth to one
half were not using or were not aware of such an advance. Less than 1 in 3
practitioners personally searched the literature when information was needed; 2
in 3 claimed literature volume was unmanageable; 9 of 10 practitioners and
opinion leaders assessed the scientific value of literature obtained, primarily
from their own experience, with less than 1 in 10 contacting research methods
specialists. Respondents suggested various innovations to better manage their
science information needs in the future.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary practitioners require substantial help in meeting current
science information needs. Increase in such resources as "validated reviews" or
"expert networks" might help meet these needs.

PMID: 2909205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):119-24.

Cardiovascular and renal toxicity of a nonionic radiographic contrast agent after
cardiac catheterization. A prospective trial.

Davidson CJ(1), Hlatky M, Morris KG, Pieper K, Skelton TN, Schwab SJ, Bashore TM.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of cardiovascular and renal toxicity 
of a nonionic contrast agent when used for cardiac catheterization, and to assess
the value of electrolytes and urinalysis results as predictors of nephropathy
induced by a contrast agent.
STUDY DESIGN: Nonrandomized trial using a criterion standard and a cohort
analytic study with a 48-hour follow-up.
SETTING: Referral-based university hospital.
PATIENTS: Convenience sample of patients having diagnostic cardiac
catheterization. Renal function and clinical status were evaluated at baseline in
1,144 patients; at 24 hours in 1,077 (94%); and at 48 hours in 663 (57%).
INTERVENTIONS: After patients received saline for hydration, coronary angiography
and left ventriculography were done with iopamidol (average dose, 203 +/- 56 cc).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The definite and possible incidence of major acute
cardiovascular complications from nonionic contrast media was 0.2% and 0.7%,
respectively. The mean serum creatinine level increased 11.5 mumol/L from
baseline at 24 hours (P less than 0.0001) and 16.8 mumol/L from baseline at 48
hours (P less than 0.0001). Results in a randomly selected training sample were
studied to determine predictors of a rise in serum creatinine of 44.2 mumol/L or 
more. The baseline serum creatinine level and age were significant predictors of 
renal injury, but hypertension, diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure,
vascular disease, the volume of contrast agent injected or baseline values of
urinary variables did not predict nephrotoxicity. In an independent validation
sample, only the baseline serum creatinine level was confirmed as a predictor of 
nephrotoxicity, whereas age was not. A model that predicted contrast-induced
nephropathy by the serum creatinine level showed an exponential increase in the
risk for nephrotoxicity if the baseline level was 106.1 mumol/L or higher.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients have a small but significant rise in serum creatinine after
cardiac catheterization with a nonionic contrast agent. Baseline renal
insufficiency is the only confirmed predictor of nonionic contrast-induced
nephrotoxicity.

PMID: 2909204  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):108-14.

Recombinant human erythropoietin treatment in pre-dialysis patients. A
double-blind placebo-controlled trial.

Lim VS(1), DeGowin RL, Zavala D, Kirchner PT, Abels R, Perry P, Fangman J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and safety of recombinant human
erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) in predialysis renal patients.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial for 8 weeks.
SETTING: Inpatient and outpatient facility in the Clinical Research Center of a
university-based hospital.
PATIENTS: Fourteen adult subjects with renal insufficiency (mean serum
creatinine, 473 mumol/L +/- 61 [6.2 +/- 0.8 mg/dL]) and anemia (mean hematocrit, 
0.27 +/- 0.01).
INTERVENTIONS: Recombinant human erythropoietin, 50, 100, or 150 IU/kg body
weight or placebo given intravenously three times per week.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Subjects who received active r-HuEPO showed a
dose-dependent rise in hematocrit; mean hematocrit increased 41% from 0.27 +/-
0.01 to 0.38 +/- 0.01. At the same time, erythrocyte mass rose 43% from 13.7 +/- 
0.6 mL/kg in the baseline state to 19.6 +/- 1.0 mL/kg after treatment. Maximal
oxygen consumption during exercise increased 9% from 16.0 mL/min.kg +/- 1.8 to
17.5 mL/min.kg +/- 1.9.
CONCLUSIONS: Recombinant human erythropoietin is effective and safe in
ameliorating the anemia of pre-dialysis patients.

PMID: 2909202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):125-37.

Tests of glycemia in diabetes mellitus. Their use in establishing a diagnosis and
in treatment.

Singer DE(1), Coley CM, Samet JH, Nathan DM.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

PURPOSE: To assess the usefulness of urine glucose testing, physician-based and
self blood glucose monitoring, and assays of glycated hemoglobin in diagnosing
and treating diabetes mellitus.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Relevant literature in English from 1957 through early 1988 
was identified via textbooks, original research articles, and review and policy
papers, supplemented by a computer-based search of the National Library of
Medicine MEDLINE database.
STUDY SELECTION: Articles were selected because of prominence, based on frequent 
citation or policy authoritativeness, and relevance to the epidemiologic and
clinical constructs of this paper.
RESULTS: We analyze the epidemiologic studies underlying the higher diagnostic
glycemic thresholds for diabetes proposed by the National Diabetes Data Group and
we suggest a diagnostic strategy in which glycated hemoglobin may substitute for 
glucose tolerance testing. Our section on treatment stresses matching the
intensiveness of hypoglycemic therapy with the intensiveness of monitoring:
emphasizing the role of self blood glucose monitoring. Our findings and
recommendations are summarized in the figures and tables.
CONCLUSIONS: Major advances in the diagnosis and management of diabetes have been
made in the past 10 years. In particular, an array of epidemiologic studies have 
provided a logical basis for diagnostic standards, and two new means of assessing
glycemia--glycated hemoglobin and self-monitoring of blood glucose--have become
widely available. These tests allow more convenient approaches to diagnosis, and 
provide a fuller description of glycemia, permitting more informed and intensive 
therapy.

PMID: 2642375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):101-7.

Left ventricular mass and incidence of coronary heart disease in an elderly
cohort. The Framingham Heart Study.

Levy D(1), Garrison RJ, Savage DD, Kannel WB, Castelli WP.

Author information: 
(1)Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association of echocardiographically determined left
ventricular mass with incidence of coronary heart disease in an elderly cohort.
DESIGN: Cohort study with a follow-up period of 4 years.
SETTING: Population-based.
SUBJECTS: Elderly original volunteer subjects of the Framingham Heart Study who
were free of clinically apparent coronary heart disease. This group included 406 
men (mean age, 68 years: range, 60 to 90) and 735 women (mean age, 69 years:
range, 59 to 90).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: During 4 years of follow-up, coronary heart
disease events occurred in 37 men and 33 women. Baseline echocardiographically
determined left ventricular mass was associated with incidence of coronary
disease in both sexes (P less than 0.01). After adjusting for age, systolic blood
pressure, smoking, and the ratio of total/high density lipoprotein cholesterol,
the relative risk for a coronary event, per 50 g/m increment in left ventricular 
mass/height, was 1.67 in men (95% CI, 1.24 to 2.23) and 1.60 in women (95% CI,
1.10 to 2.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular mass offers
prognostic information beyond that provided by traditional risk factors, which
can improve our ability to identify individuals at high risk for coronary heart
disease. These findings may have widespread implications regarding the
applications of echocardiography in clinical practice.

PMID: 2521199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 15;110(2):138-50.

Urinary tract infections in men. Epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and
treatment.

Lipsky BA.

Author information: 
Seattle Veterans Administration Medical Center.

PURPOSE: To review the epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of
urinary tract infections in men, especially insofar as they differ from those in 
women.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies published between 1954 and 1988 were identified
using MEDLINE (1981-1988) and Index Medicus (1981-1988), and through extensive
manual searching of textbooks, symposia, monographs, and bibliographies of
identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: More than 200 studies were reviewed; those studies most
pertinent to the topics reviewed were cited. Unpublished data from the author's
studies were also cited.
DATA EXTRACTION: Study quality and descriptive information about prevalence,
evaluations, interventions, and outcomes were assessed. Quantitative synthesis
was not done.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: Most men with urinary tract infection have a functional
or anatomic abnormality of the genitourinary tract. Prostatic hypertrophy and
genitourinary instrumentation are the major predispositions to infection in men. 
Signs and symptoms of bacteriuria in men are similar to those in women. Diagnosis
rests on a properly collected specimen yielding 10(3) or more colony-forming
units/mL of a single or predominant species. Eschericia coli is the most frequent
uropathogen, but other gram-negative and gram-positive species cause up to one
half of cases. Treatment of men with single-dose therapy is inadequate; men with 
recurrent infections require at least 6 weeks of appropriate treatment.
Asymptomatic bacteriuria is common in elderly men, but does not usually
necessitate treatment. Although genitourinary abnormalities are frequent in
bacteriuric male patients, a diagnostic evaluation is probably indicated only in 
young boys and in men with recurrent or complicated infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Several important aspects of the epidemiology, pathophysiology,
diagnosis, and treatment of urinary tract infections differ in male populations
from those in the much better studied female populations. Knowledge of recently
available data will help clinicians develop a rational approach to caring for
bacteriuric men.

PMID: 2462391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


799. BMJ. 1989 Jan 14;298(6666):82-6.

Coated mesalazine (5-aminosalicylic acid) versus sulphasalazine in the treatment 
of active ulcerative colitis: a randomised trial.

Rachmilewitz D.

Author information: 
Department of Gastroenterology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and efficacy of a preparation of mesalazine
(5-aminosalicylic acid) coated with a pH dependent resin (Eudragit L) as compared
with sulphasalazine in patients with active mild to moderate ulcerative colitis.
DESIGN: Eight week randomised double blind parallel group study.
SETTING: Forty six gastroenterology outpatient clinics in seven countries.
PATIENTS: Two hundred and twenty patients aged 18-70 who met the following
criteria: clinical activity index greater than or equal to 6 and endoscopic index
greater than or equal to 4; no concomitant treatment for ulcerative colitis; no
hypersensitivity to salicylates or sulphonamides. Of the 164 patients eligible
for efficacy analysis, 87 received the coated preparation of mesalazine and 77
sulphasalazine. Most of the remaining patients (28 in each group) were ineligible
for the efficacy analysis because of treatment with steroid enemas. All pretrial 
characteristics were comparable in the two treatment groups.
INTERVENTIONS: Coated mesalazine (Mesasal) 1.5 g daily or sulphasalazine 3.0 g
daily for eight weeks. Compliance monitored by pill counts.
END POINT: Clinical and endoscopic remission.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Clinical activity measured by daily diary cards,
assessment by investigators, and laboratory findings. Endoscopic evaluation at
week 8. After four weeks 50 of 70 patients (71%) taking coated mesalazine and 38 
of 58 (66%) taking sulphasalazine had achieved remission of their disease by
eight weeks remission rates were 74% (37/50 patients) and 81% (35/43) in the two 
treatment groups respectively. Endoscopic remission at eight weeks was recorded
in 20 of 41 patients (49%) taking coated mesalazine and 18 of 38 (47%) taking
sulphasalazine. There was a higher incidence of adverse events among patients
taking sulphasalazine (25/105; 24%) than among those taking coated mesalazine
(16/115; 14%).
CONCLUSION: Mesalazine coated with Eudragit L is a safe, logical alternative to
sulphasalazine.

PMCID: PMC1835436
PMID: 2563951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


800. BMJ. 1989 Jan 14;298(6666):80-2.

Randomised controlled trial of interferon alfa (lymphoblastoid interferon) in
chronic non-A non-B hepatitis.

Jacyna MR(1), Brooks MG, Loke RH, Main J, Murray-Lyon IM, Thomas HC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, St Mary's Hospital Medical School, Paddington, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of low dose interferon alfa (human
lymphoblastoid interferon) on aminotransferase activities in chronic non-A non-B 
hepatitis.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised controlled parallel group study of active
treatment versus no treatment carried out over 16 weeks and preceded by baseline 
measurements at weeks 8 and 4 and time zero.
SETTING: HEPATOLOGY outpatient clinics in secondary referral centres.
PATIENTS: Fourteen adults with histologically proved chronic hepatitis and
persistently raised aminotransferase activities for six months or more.
INTERVENTIONS: Seven patients randomised to receive interferon alfa 5 megaunits
(MU) daily for one week, reducing to 5 MU thrice weekly for seven weeks, then 3
MU thrice weekly for eight weeks. Controls not treated.
END POINT: Control of hepatic enzyme activity in chronic non-A non-B hepatitis.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Serum aspartate aminotransferase activity remained
raised in controls (mean increase in study period 23.4 U/l) but fell rapidly to
normal in the treated group (mean decrease 106.4 U/l). In four cases values were 
normal by eight weeks and in five cases by 16 weeks. Only minor side effects were
recorded (fever, myalgia), which became less common as treatment progressed.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuous low dose interferon alfa reduces aspartate
aminotransferase activity to normal in most patients with chronic non-A non-B
hepatitis and may prevent progression to cirrhosis.

PMCID: PMC1835424
PMID: 2493302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1989 Jan;120(1):55-61.

A correlative study between glucocorticoid receptor levels in human mononuclear
leukocytes and biochemical data in Cushing's disease.

Pardes EM(1), de Yampey JW, Soto RJ, Moses DF, De Nicola AF.

Author information: 
(1)División Endocrinología, Hospital Ramos Mejía, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

We determined glucocorticoid receptors in human mononuclear leukocytes in 9
patients with Cushing's disease, in order to correlate them with laboratory data.
Receptors were measured by a whole-cell assay method, after incubation with
[3H]-dexamethasone in the presence or absence of excess unlabelled hormone. In
Cushing's disease, there were 4425 +/- 364 sites/cell (N = 9), similar to in the 
controls: 4473 +/- 476 (N = 10); average Kd was 2.42 +/- 0.52 nmol/l (N = 3)
similar to in the controls: 2.0 +/- 0.20 nmol/l (N = 3). In Cushing's patients we
found significant negative correlations between basal glucocorticoid receptors
and: 1) morning blood cortisol (r = -0.67, P less than 0.05), and 2) 17-ketogenic
steroids after 2 mg of dexamethasone (r = -0.85, P less than 0.01). No
correlations were observed with afternoon blood cortisol, free urinary cortisol, 
basal and post-8-mg dexamethasone 17-ketogenic steroids, TRH-TSH area, urinary
calcium, plasma glucose, or systolic blood pressure.CONCLUSIONS: In Cushing's
disease, a subtle receptor down-regulation may exist, as suggested by the inverse
relationship between glucocorticoid receptors and morning blood cortisol.
Secondly, the relationship between basal receptors and 17-ketogenic steroids
after 2 mg of dexamethasone suggests that glucocorticoid receptors in human
mononuclear leukocytes could reflect the sensitivity of the nervous
system-pituitary-adrenal axis to dexamethasone inhibition.

PMID: 2911941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 1989;19(3):123-9.

The pancreatic enzymes value in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis and acute
biliary tract diseases.

Parodi HC(1), Colombato LO, Gutiérrez S, Lattanzi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Nacional Dr. Alejandro Posadas, Haedo,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The aim of this study was to investigate the usefulness of lipase and isoamylases
in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis and to determine if its use permits
differential diagnosis between acute pancreatitis and acute biliary tract
disease. Three groups of patients were studied. a)CONTROL: 60 patients without
abdominal diseases. b) Acute pancreatitis: 60 patients, the diagnosis was made
according to clinical symptoms, biochemical tests, U.S. and C.T. in 24 (40%), in 
the remainder 36 (60%) surgical confirmation was obtained. c) Acute biliary tract
disease without macroscopic pancreatic damage, 30 patients, the diagnosis was
made according to biochemical tests and U.S. in 4 (13.3%) whereas in the
remainder 26 (86.6%) surgical confirmation was accomplished no later than a week 
of the beginning of the symptoms. Biochemical tests: serum and urine amylase,
lipase, and total pancreatic and salivary isoamylases were evaluated. In the
group of acute pancreatitis the highest diagnostic sensibility was: pancreatic
isoamylase 95.5%, lipase 95%, total serum amylase 93.3% urine amylase 90%, serum 
amylase 78.3%. In acute biliary tract diseases a high number of elevated enzyme
values were also found: pancreatic isoamylase 83.3%, total isoamylase 73.3%,
urine amylase 66.6%, lipase 63.3%, serum amylase 53.3%. The mean enzyme values of
both groups were compared statistically and showed no significant difference. We 
conclude that lipase and isoamylases are the best markers for the diagnosis of
acute pancreatitis and the differential diagnosis with acute biliary diseases is 
difficult because an elevation of these enzymes is a characteristic shared by
both pathologies. The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis based only in clinical
symptoms and hyperamylasemia can be erroneous.

PMID: 2483968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Acta Leprol. 1989;7(1):51-6.

[Lepromatous leprosy: clinical and electrophysiological arguments in favor of
axonal multi-neuritis].

[Article in French]

Tzourio C(1), Henry P, Boucher P, Parent M, Millan J, Métral S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Léprologie Appliquée de Dakar (ILAD) Fondation de l'Ordre de Malta,
Annexe Dakar, Sénégal.

This work was undertaken because there were only few reports on neurological
aspects on lepromatous leprosy. We studied 30 patients suffering from lepromatous
leprosy who, at their first visit to the Institute had never been treated. The
clinical examination included a quantitative evaluation of the neurological
status following the method developed by Pearson. Motor and sensory nerve
conduction velocities were measured: values of conduction velocity and distal
amplitude were analysed and compared to those of a group of 22 healthy
subjects.IN CONCLUSION: (a) There is a high frequency of clinical and especially 
electrophysiological neurological impairment. This impairment can be extremely
precocious and may happen shortly after the first cutaneous signs. (b) Nervous
impairment is diffuse, bilateral but not homogeneous. These are characteristics
of mononeuritis multiplex. Impairement is predominantly sensitive and tactile
sensibility is more involved than thermo-algic sensation. (c) The radial
superficial nerve is the most frequently involved clinically and
electrophysiologically. (d) The electrophysiological results, showing a normal or
slightly reduced conduction velocity and a low amplitude of evoked potentiel are 
in favour of a predominantly axonal damage.

PMID: 2624076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1989;68(8):683-7.

Comparison of induced versus non-induced labor in post-term pregnancy. A
randomized prospective study.

Bergsjø P(1), Huang GD, Yu SQ, Gao ZZ, Bakketeig LS.

Author information: 
(1)Hubei Maternity and Child Health Hospital, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the proper management of pregnancy in uncomplicated cases
going beyond 42 weeks.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial of induction of labor at or shortly after the
42-week limit, versus close monitoring without induction except when indicated
for medical reasons.
SETTING: Hospital's obstetrical department
STUDY POPULATION: 188 pregnant women, randomly allocated to two groups with 94 in
each.
INTERVENTIONS: Induction of labor by stripping of membranes and i.v. oxytocin
infusion, with artificial rupture of membranes when the cervical opening was 3 cm
or more in diameter. The control group was followed with clinical, biochemical
and electronic tests, intervention being applied according to needs.
END POINTS: Frequency and modes of operative delivery, maternal and perinatal
morbidity and mortality.
MAIN RESULTS: The distribution of gestational age (in weeks) at birth was almost 
identical in the two groups, but there were more operative deliveries in the
control group than in the induction group (64 versus 48, p less than 0.05).
Maternal complications and perinatal morbidity rates were equally distributed
between the groups. There was one perinatal death in the induction group and two 
deaths among the controls.
CONCLUSION: With due reservation for small numbers, routine induction after term 
may result in fewer operative deliveries. No other advantage has been
demonstrated when compared with close monitoring and intervention when medically 
indicated.

PMID: 2698591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Belg. 1989;43(2):177-85.

[Effect of cinnarizine on various types of vertigo. Clinical and
electronystagmographic results of a double-blind study].

[Article in French]

Hausler R(1), Sabani E, Rohr M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire, Genève, Suisse.

The anti-vertigo effect of Cinnarizine (Stugeron R) has been tested in a
controlled double blinded study on 40 patients suffering from various, well
defined peripheral or central vestibular disorders. 12 patients out of 20 treated
with 75 mg Cinnarizine twice a day during seven days demonstrated satisfactory
vertigo suppression versus only 5 out of 20 treated with placebo. (SIGNIFICANCE: 
p less than 0.05). Particularly favorable results were obtained in patients
suffering from sudden peripheral vestibular deficit, from vertigo of circulatory 
origin and from post traumatic vertigo. Results were less conclusive in patients 
with Menière's disease or central neurologic disorders (multiple sclerosis or
heredito-degenerative diseases). The difference between the treated group and the
placebo group was less striking after a prolonged treatment of eight weeks
because of an important spontaneous improvement rate also in the placebo group.
Electronystagmography did not show clearly detectable differences between
patients treated with Cinnarizine and those treated with placebo. A temporary
depressant effect on vestibular nystagmus was however electronystagmographically 
documented when the Cinnarizine dose was increased to 150 mg, (single dose) given
to 5 healthy volunteers. The drug was generally well tolerated. Minor side
effects were: slight somnolence (5 patients out of 19), slight headache (2/19)
and transient abdominal pain (2/19).

PMID: 2690563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Acta Physiol Hung. 1989;73(2-3):155-8.

Similarities and differences in the cytoprotection induced by PGI2 and
beta-carotene in experimental ulcer.

Sütö G(1), Garamszegi M, Jávor T, Vincze A, Mózsik G.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Medicine, University Medical School, Pécs, Hungary.

It was earlier known that PGI2 and beta-carotene have a cytoprotective effect,
but the similarities and the differences of their mechanisms were not clear. The 
gastric mucosal lesions were produced by ig. administration of 1 ml 96% ethanol
and 1 ml 0.6 N HCl in rats. The 5 and 50 micrograms/kg dose of PGI2 and the 1 and
10 mg dose of beta-carotene was given 30 min. earlier. The animals were sacrified
1, 5, 15, 30 and 60 minutes after the administration of the necrotizing agent.
The number and the severity of gastric mucosal lesions were noted. It was found
that the number and the severity of gastric ulcers were dose-dependently
decreased in each model after using either PGI2 or beta-carotene. The inhibiting 
effect of PGI2 appeared in the first last 15 minutes while beta-carotene was
effective from 15 to 60 minutes.CONCLUSION: The mechanism of the cytoprotection
induced by PGI2 differ from the beta-carotene induced one. PGI2 plays a part in
the earlier vascular phase. beta-carotene modulates the repair mechanisms.

PMID: 2512763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Adv Perit Dial. 1989;5:24-7.

Induced changes of the peritoneal diffusion capacity by smoking, intraabdominal
hypertension and omentectomy.

Selgas R(1), Muñoz J, Miranda B, Ramos P, Caparros G, Revuelta KL, Gonzalez A,
Gallar P, Sanchez Sicilia L.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital La Paz (Madrid), Spain.

Peritoneal membrane suffers in some CAPD patients changes which modify its
functionalism. In order to know whether these changes could be expected or
appropriate, it is necessary to explore the general and particular conditions
which can alter peritoneal physiology. Three aspects, smoking, intraabdominal
hyperpressure and and omentectomy are situations which have not been included in 
the studies of peritoneal physiology.PATIENTS: The control group was constituted 
by 23 patients. Diabetics were studied as a separate group, with their own 10
patient controls. Smokers (1-20 cigarettes per day): 15 were non-diabetic
patients, 9 were females. Diabetic smokers: 7 patients. Intraabdominal
hyperpressure was determined by two big polycycstic kidneys (PCKD) in 8 patients,
none diabetic. Omentectomy was performed in 6 non-diabetic and 9 diabetic
patients. In all cases the procedure was prescribed because of an early catheter 
entrapment. Smoker patients show significant higher MTCs values for urea and
creatinine than controls, but the slightly lower ultrafiltration value did not
reached significant difference. Polycystic kidney patients showed lower MTCs
values in respect to controls. Ultrafiltration capacity was similar.
Omentectomized patients did not show any differences in respect to controls. In
the diabetic patients group, neither ultrafiltration nor MTCs values presented
significant differences between the established subgroups. So, smoking did not
seem to induce higher MTC values as in the non-diabetic group. In conclusion, and
according to the present results, two more situations should be taken into
account in the evaluation of the peritoneal membrane dialyzing capacities:
smoking, which increases diffusion capacity except for diabetics and PCKD with
tow big kidneys, which decreases this capacity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2577420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Am Heart J. 1989 Jan;117(1):37-42.

Myocardial salvage after regional beta-adrenergic blockade.

Wappel M(1), Zalewski A, Savage M, Hessen S, Goldberg S, Maroko PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA
19107.

The aim of the study was to determine whether regional beta-adrenergic blockade
via the coronary sinus limited myocardial damage after coronary artery occlusion 
in the canine model. Accordingly, open-chest anesthetized dogs were randomly
allocated to one of three groups: a control group and groups treated with
propranolol (in doses of 0.02, 0.2, and 2.0 mg/kg) given either intravenously or 
via the coronary sinus. The hypoperfused zone (i.e., risk area) and the extent of
myocardial damage were assessed by autoradiography and triphenyltetrazolium
chloride staining, respectively. Myocardial damage expressed as a percent of the 
hypoperfused zone was 84 +/- 5% in the control group (n = 9) and 78 +/- 7% (0.02 
mg/kg, n = 7, NS), 63 +/- 6% (0.2 mg/kg, n = 7, p less than 0.05), and 62 +/- 7% 
(2.0 mg/kg, n = 9, p less than 0.02) in the groups receiving intravenous
propranolol and 73 +/- 6% (0.02 mg/kg, n = 7, NS), 58 +/- 7% (0.2 mg/kg, n = 7, p
less than 0.01), and 44 +/- 9% (2.0 mg/kg, n = 9, p less than 0.001) in groups
receiving propranolol via the cardiac veins. There was a significant enhancement 
of myocardial salvage with increasing doses of propranolol delivered via the
cardiac veins (linear regression trend, p less than 0.05). In contrast,
myocardial damage expressed as a percent of the hypoperfused zone remained
comparable with propranolol doses of 0.2 and 2.0 mg/kg administered intravenously
(linear regression trend, NS).IN CONCLUSION: (1) regional beta-adrenergic
blockade via the cardiac veins afforded significant myocardial salvage and (2)
the regional administration of propranolol resulted in significant reduction of
myocardial damage in a dose-dependent fashion.

PMID: 2911988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):71-6.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in a population with or at risk for acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome: indications for intensive chemotherapy.

Bermudez MA(1), Grant KM, Rodvien R, Mendes F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center, San Francisco,
California 94115.

PURPOSE: An increased risk of malignancies, including Kaposi's sarcoma and
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, is found in patients infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Treatment of such patients may be
complicated by their underlying immunodeficiency, especially when aggressive
regimens are used. Clinical presentation and treatment outcomes were assessed in 
31 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who had or were at risk for infection
with HIV-1 at a single community institution.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Lymphomas presented in advanced stages and involved
extranodal sites. Twenty-six patients received therapy (two radiation, one
surgery), and a total of 23 patients received chemotherapy.
RESULTS: A 52 percent response rate was seen with the use of chemotherapy. A
history of opportunistic infections, or Kaposi's sarcoma, or both impacted
negatively on the ability to achieve a complete response. Sixty-four percent of
the 11 patients who received an intensive chemotherapeutic regimen, MACOP-B
(methotrexate, Adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, bleomycin) 
had complete remissions. Overall median survival for 23 patients who received
chemotherapy was seven months. Patients achieving complete responses had a median
survival of 20 months.
CONCLUSION: Our results support intensive chemotherapy for patients with lymphoma
and HIV-1 infection.

PMID: 2910097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):43-8.

Elevation of plasma neuropeptide Y levels in congestive heart failure.

Maisel AS(1), Scott NA, Motulsky HJ, Michel MC, Boublik JH, Rivier JE, Ziegler M,
Allen RS, Brown MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego.

PURPOSE: Our objectives were to assess whether plasma neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels
are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and whether or not
NPY levels can serve as a reliable indicator of sympathetic activity in CHF.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Plasma levels of the sympathetic neurotransmitters
norepinephrine and epinephrine and of the sympathetic co-transmitter NPY were
measured in 17 patients with CHF and 14 healthy control subjects at rest and
after maximal exercise.
RESULTS: Under resting conditions, plasma NPY and norepinephrine levels were
elevated in patients with CHF compared with control subjects (551 +/- 48 pg/ml
versus 311 +/- 22 pg/ml, p less than or equal to 0.001 for NPY, and 306 +/- 73
pg/ml versus 124 +/- 22 pg/ml, p less than or equal to 0.02 for norepinephrine). 
Plasma NPY correlated better with plasma norepinephrine than with epinephrine,
indicating its origin from sympathetic nerve terminals. Acute stimulation of
sympathetic activity by dynamic exercise increased plasma norepinephrine levels
in control subjects and patients with CHF, but did not significantly alter the
mean plasma NPY value in the latter group.
CONCLUSION: NPY may play a role in the pathophysiology of CHF.

PMID: 2910096  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):4-10.

Serial lung function testing in patients treated with amiodarone: a prospective
study.

Gleadhill IC(1), Wise RA, Schonfeld SA, Scott PP, Guarnieri T, Levine JH,
Griffith LS, Veltri EP.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland.

PURPOSE: Amiodarone has proven to be effective in many cases of cardiac
arrhythmias, refractory ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation.
Pulmonary toxicity is a possible side effect of the drug, with a reported
incidence of 2 to 15 percent per year. To determine the effect of amiodarone on
lung function, we prospectively studied serial lung function tests in a cohort of
91 patients with refractory cardiac arrhythmias treated with this agent.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Spirometry and carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO)
were measured at zero, three, six, 12, 18, and 24 months, with a mean follow-up
of 351 days.
RESULTS: For the whole population taking a mean dose of amiodarone of 367 mg
daily (range: 136 to 512 mg), there was no accelerated rate of decline in
spirometric indices or DLCO. Analysis of lung function changes by multivariate
analysis demonstrated that an accelerated decline in DLCO values occurred in
elderly patients (p less than 0.05) but not in patients with pre-existing lung
disease or cigarette smokers. In four patients (4.5 percent), clinical evidence
of amiodarone pulmonary toxicity developed that was associated with a fall in
DLCO of greater than 20 percent. All four patients recovered after the drug was
stopped. Another 15 patients, without clinical evidence of pulmonary toxicity,
had a sustained decline in DLCO of greater than 20 percent. These 15 patients
remained asymptomatic over the next 11 months without interruption of therapy. A 
greater than 20 percent fall in DLCO was a sensitive test for clinically evident 
amiodarone pulmonary toxicity, but had a positive predictive value of only 21
percent.
CONCLUSION: An isolated fall in DLCO, in the absence of clinical evidence of
toxicity, does not necessitate stopping amiodarone. An unchanged DLCO value
appears to be a reliable negative predictor of pulmonary toxicity.

PMID: 2910095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):39-42.

Increased serum cortisol binding in chronic active hepatitis.

Orbach O(1), Schussler GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York Health Science Center,
Brooklyn 11203.

PURPOSE: A high serum cortisol concentration, apparently due to increased
cortisol-binding globulin (CBG), was found in a patient (index case) with chronic
active hepatitis (CAH). We therefore performed further studies to determine
whether increased cortisol binding is generally associated with CAH.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Serum samples were obtained from 15 hospitalized patients
with long-term liver function test elevations but no evidence of cirrhosis, 15
normal subjects without a history of hepatitis, four healthy pregnant women, and 
10 alcoholic patients with stigmata of cirrhosis. Serum cortisol binding was
measured by an adaptation of a previously described charcoal uptake method.
Thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) and sex hormone-binding globulin were determined
by radioimmunoassays.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Charcoal uptake of 125I cortisol from sera of normal
subjects and additional patients with CAH revealed that increased serum cortisol 
binding by a saturable site, presumably CBG, was associated with CAH. Cortisol
binding was significantly correlated with immunoassayable TBG, suggesting that in
CAH, similar mechanisms may be responsible for increasing the serum
concentrations of CBG and TBG.

PMID: 2910094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):32-8.

Esophageal dysfunction and chest pain in patients with mitral valve prolapse: a
prospective study utilizing provocative testing during esophageal manometry.

Koch KL(1), Davidson WR Jr, Day FP, Spears PF, Voss SR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University Hospital, College of Medicine, Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center, Pennsylvania State University, Hershey 17033.

PURPOSE: The cause of chest discomfort in patients with mitral valve prolapse
(MVP) remains unknown. Our aim was to determine prospectively the incidence of
esophageal disorders and abnormal responses to edrophonium chloride and
esophageal acid infusions in patients with MVP and troublesome non-ischemic chest
pain.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: After coronary artery disease was excluded, 20 patients
with MVP and chest pain underwent esophageal manometry and provocative testing
with edrophonium chloride and acid infusion. Seven patients with MVP but without 
chest pain served as control subjects; they also underwent esophageal manometry
with provocative testing.
RESULTS: Esophageal manometry revealed esophageal disorders in 16 patients:
diffuse esophageal spasm in 14 patients, nutcracker esophagus in one, and
hypotensive lower esophageal sphincter in one. Esophageal motility was normal in 
four patients. Injection of edrophonium and acid infusion tests evoked typical
chest discomfort in three of 18 and five of 19 patients, respectively. In six of 
seven control subjects with MVP but with no chest discomfort, esophageal motility
was normal and provocative testing did not produce chest discomfort (p less than 
0.05 versus results in patients).
CONCLUSION: Esophageal disorders were common and may account for chest discomfort
in certain patients with MVP and persistent chest pain syndromes.

PMID: 2910093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):27-31.

Hypertriglyceridemia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

Grunfeld C(1), Kotler DP, Hamadeh R, Tierney A, Wang J, Pierson RN.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Section, Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Francisco,
California 94121.

PURPOSE: A relationship between the induction of hypertriglyceridemia by
cytokines and the cachexia seen in chronic infection has been proposed by other
investigators. Since patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) 
often experience progressive tissue wasting, we decided to examine serum lipid
levels and body cell mass in patients with AIDS.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Serum lipid levels and body cell mass were measured in 32
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), eight asymptomatic
subjects who were anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibody positive, and 
17 heterosexual and homosexual control subjects who did not have antibodies to
HIV.
RESULTS: Mean triglyceride concentrations and the prevalence of
hypertriglyceridemia (50 percent) were significantly increased in patients with
AIDS compared with control subjects (p less than 0.002 and p less than 0.005,
respectively), whereas the mean triglyceride levels of HIV-positive subjects were
intermediate. There were no differences in cholesterol levels among the three
groups. Using total body potassium adjusted for height and age (KHT) as a measure
of body cell mass, 16 of 32 patients with AIDS but none of the HIV-positive or
control subjects had significant depletion of body cell mass. There was no direct
relationship between triglyceride levels and KHT among AIDS or HIV-positive
subjects. In patients with AIDS, mean triglyceride levels and the prevalence of
hypertriglyceridemia were similar in the presence and absence of wasting.
CONCLUSION: Hypertriglyceridemia is a common finding in AIDS and is independent
of the degree of wasting.

PMID: 2910092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):15-9.

Treatment of antibiotic-associated Clostridium difficile colitis with oral
vancomycin: comparison of two dosage regimens.

Fekety R(1), Silva J, Kauffman C, Buggy B, Deery HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor
48109-0378.

PURPOSE: High-dose (500 mg orally four times daily) vancomycin is considered by
many investigators to be the most effective treatment for antibiotic-associated
Clostridium difficile colitis. However, a lower dosage of 125 or 150 mg given
three or four times a day has become popular, has been shown to be effective, and
is less expensive than the high-dose regimen. We therefore decided to compare two
vancomycin dosage regimens in a randomized trial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study involved 46 hospitalized patients with serious
underlying diseases complicated by C. difficile diarrhea or colitis. Patients
were assigned (according to a table of random numbers) to treatment with either
125 or 500 mg of vancomycin orally four times daily for an average of 10 days.
RESULTS: No significant differences in measurable responses to the two regimens
were noted. There were no treatment failures. The mean duration of diarrhea after
initiation of therapy was about four days, and almost all patients had no
diarrhea after one week. The organism continued to be demonstrated in the stools 
of about 50 percent of patients for the first few weeks after completion of
therapy, and nine (20 percent) patients developed a recurrence of their diarrheal
illness. Vancomycin was well tolerated by all patients.
CONCLUSION: Since the dose of 125 mg appeared to be as effective as the 500-mg
dose, which is more expensive, the 125-mg dose is preferred when vancomycin is
used in treatment of this disease, unless the patient is critically ill.

PMID: 2910090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):20-6.

Elevated plasma levels of the anaphylatoxins C3a and C4a are associated with a
fatal outcome in sepsis.

Hack CE(1), Nuijens JH, Felt-Bersma RJ, Schreuder WO, Eerenberg-Belmer AJ,
Paardekooper J, Bronsveld W, Thijs LG.

Author information: 
(1)Central Laboratory, Netherlands Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service, Amsterdam.

PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: Both complement and contact system of
coagulation have been implicated in the pathophysiology of sepsis. We therefore
measured levels of the complement activation products C1-C1-inhibitor complexes
and C3a in serial plasma samples (obtained every six hours) from 48 patients with
clinically suspected sepsis, and related these levels to the clinical outcome.
C4a was also measured in samples obtained on admission.
RESULTS: C3a levels were elevated in 47 patients at least once during the
observation period. These levels appeared to be considerably higher in patients
who died than in patients who survived. This difference was found for the levels 
on admission (p = 0.0003), as well as for the highest (p = 0.0010) and the lowest
(p less than 0.0001) levels encountered in each patient. The mortality in
patients with plasma C3a levels of 13 nmol/liter or less on admission (27
patients) was 33 percent, compared with 86 percent in patients with levels of 14 
nmol/liter or more. Patients with septic shock had significantly higher C3a
levels than normotensive patients (p values between 0.046 and 0.004). No
significant differences in C3a were found between patients who had respiratory
distress syndrome and those who did not. C4a levels in plasma samples obtained on
admission were elevated in 43 patients. These levels correlated very
significantly with C3a levels (p less than 0.0001), and showed similar
associations with a fatal outcome. C1-C1-inhibitor complexes were elevated in 23 
patients at least once during the observation period. These patients had
significantly higher levels of C4a and C3a than patients with normal amounts of
C1-C1-inhibitor complexes. Patients who died had higher levels of C1-C1-inhibitor
complexes than patients who survived. However, this difference was not
significant.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of our results, we propose that activation of the
complement system via the classical pathway is involved in the development of
fatal complications in sepsis.

PMID: 2783358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):11-4.

Haemophilus influenzae pneumonia in young adults with AIDS, ARC, or risk of AIDS.

Schlamm HT(1), Yancovitz SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Medical Center, New York, New York.

PURPOSE: Since the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) was first described 
in 1981, we have observed an increasing number of cases of Haemophilus influenzae
pneumonia, particularly in young adult patients. To confirm this observation, we 
systematically identified and reviewed all cases of H. influenzae pneumonia that 
occurred in adult patients recently hospitalized at our institution.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using a strict case definition, we identified all cases of 
adult H. influenzae pneumonia that were observed during a recent 32-month period 
at our institution, a large teaching hospital in New York City. We further
reviewed each case record for evidence of AIDS, AIDS-related complex (ARC), or
risk of AIDS.
RESULTS: H. influenzae pneumonia was diagnosed in 51 adults. Thirty-four cases
occurred in young adults (mean age = 33.9 years) with AIDS risk factors,
including 23 (67 percent) intravenous drug abusers, six (18 percent) homosexual
men, and five (15 percent) with both risks. Nine patients (26 percent) had a
previous or concurrent diagnosis of AIDS, four (12 percent) developed AIDS later,
and 13 (38 percent) others had ARC. The common presenting symptoms in young adult
patients with H. influenzae pneumonia were fever (100 percent), productive cough 
(100 percent), chest pain (53 percent), and dyspnea (47 percent). Lung
consolidation was detected on physical examination in 20 (59 percent), and chest 
radiograph demonstrated unilateral infiltrates in 18 (53 percent) and bilateral
infiltrates in 16 (47 percent), with pleural effusions in three (nine percent).
Most patients had an elevated white blood cell count (mean = 9.6 X 10(9)/liter)
with a left shift in 22 (65 percent), and hypoxia on room air (mean partial
pressure of oxygen = 69 mm Hg). Four patients with H. influenzae pneumonia and
coexisting Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia had diffuse, bilateral infiltrates on
chest radiograph, with significantly more dyspnea and a higher serum lactate
dehydrogenase level than the others. All but one patient showed improvement with 
appropriate therapy.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that potentially serious pneumonia caused by H.
influenzae occurs in young adult patients with AIDS, ARC, or AIDS risk.

PMID: 2783357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):49-55.

Treatment of hypertension in the elderly with a new calcium channel blocking
drug, nitrendipine.

Byyny RL(1), LoVerde M, Mitchell W.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Internal Medicine, University of Colorado, Denver.

PURPOSE: Treatment of hypertension in the elderly decreases cardiovascular
morbidity and mortality. We hypothesized that nitrendipine would be efficacious
in the treatment of hypertension in the elderly. We evaluated potential
differences between nitrendipine and the commonly used drug hydrochlorothiazide
(HCTZ).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was conducted as a double-blind randomized
clinical trial of nitrendipine or HCTZ. Thirty hypertensive subjects over age 60 
with a median sitting blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm of Hg were
recruited into the study. A diastolic blood pressure with treatment of less than 
95 mm Hg with a 5 mm Hg or greater decrease from baseline was considered a
successful response.
RESULTS: Nitrendipine decreased mean (+/- SEM) blood pressure from 163 +/- 3/102 
+/- 1 to 142 +/- 2/89 +/- 2 mm Hg, and HCTZ decreased it from 164 +/- 4/102 +/- 1
to 143 +/- 5/91 +/- 2 mm Hg. A greater proportion of patients had a successful
response with nitrendipine (81 percent) than with HCTZ (64 percent). The
antihypertensive effect of nitrendipine twice daily appeared to be sustained for 
24 hours. Blood pressure response to exercise was attenuated with both drugs.
HCTZ caused gout, leg pains, muscle aches, hypokalemia, increased uric acid
levels, and increased total cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Nitrendipine
caused edema and tachycardia.
CONCLUSION: Nitrendipine significantly reduces blood pressure with few side
effects and no adverse metabolic effects, and offers a reasonable alternative for
treating hypertension in the elderly.

PMID: 2642658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):56-64.

Neutrophil and eosinophil involvement of the small bowel in patients with celiac 
disease and Crohn's disease: studies on the secretion rate and
immunohistochemical localization of granulocyte granule constituents.

Hällgren R(1), Colombel JF, Dahl R, Fredens K, Kruse A, Jacobsen NO, Venge P,
Rambaud JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

PURPOSE: The concentrations of myeloperoxidase (MPO), a neutrophil granule
constituent, and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), a specific eosinophil granule
protein, were measured in jejunal perfusion fluid in an attempt to elucidate the 
neutrophil and eosinophil involvement of the small bowel in health and disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The control group consisted of 14 males and two females.
Ten patients (seven males and three females) with Crohn's disease and seven
patients (two males and five females) with celiac disease were also studied; in
addition, one patient with relapsing giardiasis, one patient with giardiasis and 
complete absence of plasma cells in small intestinal lamina propria, and one
patient with selective IgA deficiency and no IgA plasma cells in duodeno-jejunal 
lamina propria were evaluated. Segmental perfusion of the jejunum was performed
according to a previously described method. MPO and ECP were measured by
radioimmunoassays.
RESULTS: In healthy control subjects, the concentrations of both granule proteins
were in a narrow range and much higher than would have been anticipated from
passive leakage from circulating blood. In patients with celiac disease, the
perfusion fluid concentrations of MPO and ECP were on average 3.5 and eight
times, respectively, higher than the values seen in the controls. The jejunal
segment perfused in patients with Crohn's disease was endoscopically and
histologically normal. The perfusion fluid concentrations of MPO and ECP were
increased 3.5 and two times, respectively, compared with that in the control
subjects. Both patient groups and the control group had similar perfusion fluid
concentrations of albumin. Data on MPO and ECP expressed as jejunal secretion
rates gave the same differences between patients and controls as just described
for the jejunal fluid concentrations. Immunohistochemical studies of jejunal
biopsy specimens from another group of patients with celiac disease demonstrated 
a prominent extracellular deposit of ECP in the lamina propria of the atrophic
intestinal mucosa, whereas the release of neutrophil constituents (cathepsin G,
MPO) was scarce. In Crohn's disease, an extracellular degranulation of ECP and,
to a lesser extent, of cathepsin G was observed in relation to ulcerations only.
CONCLUSION: Data obtained indicate that the local release of neutrophil and
eosinophil granule components is enhanced in the jejunal tissue from patients
with celiac sprue and Crohn's disease. The prominent extracellular deposit of
eosinophil granule constituents with cytotoxic properties at the site of
inflammatory intestinal lesions in celiac sprue might reflect a pathophysiologic 
mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2535919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Am J Med. 1989 Jan;86(1):65-70.

Immunologic assessment of a cluster of asymptomatic HTLV-I-infected individuals
in New Orleans.

deShazo RD(1), Chadha N, Morgan JE, Shorty VJ, Rangan SR, Kalyanaraman VS, Hyslop
N, Chapman Y, O'Dea S.

Author information: 
(1)Tulane/Louisiana State University AIDS Clinical Trials Group, New Orleans.

PURPOSE: Although clusters of individuals infected with the human T-cell
lymphotrophic virus type I (HTLV-I) have been identified in the United States, no
systematic evaluation of the immunologic status of these persons has been
reported. We therefore studied a group of 11 HTLV-I-infected former intravenous
drug abusers who were long-term participants in a methadone maintenance program
in New Orleans, Louisiana, to determine the effects of HTLV-I and chronic opiate 
use on immunity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Mitogenic responses and results of serologic studies, cell 
phenotype analysis, and cytotoxicity assays were compared to those in two other
HTLV-I seronegative groups: a similar group of 17 methadone users and 15 healthy 
age-, sex-, and race-matched control subjects. All study participants were
seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
RESULTS: Percentages and numbers of total T lymphocytes (CD2+,CD3+),
T-suppressor/cytotoxic lymphocytes (CD8+), cytotoxic lymphocytes (Leu7+, Leu11+, 
NKH-1+) and B lymphocytes (B4+) were similar among the study groups. Although
percentages and numbers of total T-helper lymphocytes (CD4+) were also similar
among the groups, HTLV-I-infected subjects had higher percentages and proportions
of helper/inducer cells (CD4:4B4+) than did HTLV-I seronegative methadone users. 
Both methadone using groups had decreased percentages and numbers of
suppressor/inducer T lymphocytes (CD4:2H4+). Major histocompatibility complex
unrestricted T-cell cytotoxicity (lectin-dependent cellular cytotoxicity),
natural killer cell function, and mitogenic responses to the T-cell mitogen
phytohemagglutin were similar among the three study groups. Pokeweed mitogen
responses were severely depressed in the HTLV-I-infected population.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that HTLV-I infection is associated with abnormalities
in T-cell-dependent B-cell proliferative responses. Furthermore, both long-term
methadone use and HTLV-I infection are associated with abnormalities in the
distribution of CD4+ cell subpopulations. The increase in the helper/inducer and 
T-cell cell populations and decrease in the pokeweed mitogenic response noted in 
HTLV-I-infected subjects appear to be markers for infection with this retrovirus.

PMID: 2521277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Am J Nephrol. 1989;9(4):269-78.

Hypertensive dysregulation and its modification by calcium channel blockade in
nonoliguric renal failure.

Weidmann P(1), Schohn D, Gnädinger MP, Bürgisser E, Ferrier C, Jahn H.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, University of Bern, Switzerland.

To investigate the pathogenetic constellation and its modification by calcium
channel blockade in hypertension associated with chronic nonoliguric renal
failure, blood pressure (BP), various pressor factors or correlates,
cardiovascular responsiveness, and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were
assessed in 15 hypertensive patients (serum creatinine 160-715 mumol/l) before
and after 6 weeks of intervention with the agent nitrendipine. On placebo, these 
patients had a lower plasma angiotensin II (AngII) clearance and higher values of
supine plasma AngII, aldosterone, norepinephrine (NE), and heart rate than
healthy humans. Acute responses of BP to AngII and of heart rate to isoproterenol
were blunted in the patients (p less than 0.05-0.001). Plasma ANP was elevated,
correlated positively with systolic BP, and rose in response to NE pressor
infusion (p less than 0.05-0.001). Exchangeable sodium and blood volume did not
differ significantly from normal values. Nitrendipine reduced the cardiovascular 
responses to AngII, NE, and isoproterenol and lowered supine BP from 173/102 +/- 
5/2 to 146/81 +/- 3/3 mm Hg and upright BP from 170/105 +/- 5/2 to 145/86 +/- 4/3
mm Hg (p less than 0.05-0.001); except for slightly increased plasma AngII, the
levels of other endocrine variables, exchangeable sodium, blood volume, and
creatinine clearance were not significantly modified.CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension
accompanying chronic nonoliguric renal impairment seems to be strongly AngII and 
probably also NE dependent. Circulating ANP levels are high in this setting.
Calcium channel blockade with nitrendipine effectively reduces cardiovascular
AngII and NE dependence and BP.

PMID: 2683789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Anat Anz. 1989;168(3):229-36.

[The effect of a modified blood supply on the craniofacial growth of rabbits. 1. 
Vascular casts].

[Article in German]

Brehmer A(1), Beleites B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Bereichs Medizin der Wilhelm-Pieck-Universität Rostock,
DDR.

This series describes changes in the arteries of the head and neck and the growth
of the muscles of mastication, the skull and lower jaw after unilateral ligation 
of the common carotid artery. 1stREPORT: Kallocryl casts of the arterial system
of the head and neck in rabbits aged about 8 months were made. The casts from
ligated animals were compared with those from control animals. The description
deals with the arrangement and number of anastomoses.

PMID: 2764278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Angiology. 1989 Jan;40(1):39-44.

Incidence of arteriosclerotic lesions of the carotid arteries in chronic
peripheral arterial disease and myocardial infarction.

Spürk P(1), Angelkort B, Selter P.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Department, Northern City Hospital, Dortmund, West Germany.

Arteriosclerotic lesions in the carotid arteries are the main cause of ischemic
cerebral infarction. Only a few studies of the incidence of carotid lesions in
patients with chronic peripheral arterial disease (CPAD) and myocardial
infarction (MI) have been made. Thus the aim of this study was to investigate the
pathoanatomy of the carotid arteries in a representative number of patients
suffering from CPAD or MI by using highly sensitive and specific noninvasive
methods. RESULTS by other authors are discussed. The authors' own study of
cerebrovascular disease (CD), which covers epidemiologic aspects, is
presented.METHODS: "duplex scanning" and continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound.
PATIENTS: myocardial infarction, N = 73; chronic peripheral arterial disease, N =
112; cerebrovascular disease, N = 73.
RESULTS: MI: stenosis greater than 50% N = 31 (42.4% of cases) - in the case of
recurring infarction 67.8% of cases; CPAD: stenosis greater than 50% N = 54
(48.2%); CD: stenosis greater than 50% N = 35 (48%).

PMID: 2642670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Ann Biomed Eng. 1989;17(5):475-82.

Simultaneous measurement of stroke volume by impedance cardiography and nuclear
ventriculography: comparisons at rest and exercise.

Wilson MF(1), Sung BH, Pincomb GA, Lovallo WR.

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, VA Medical Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73104.

We have conducted four major impedance cardiography (ZCG) studies to provide data
on validity, reproducibility, and sensitivity of response to interventions. The
reference technique was quantitative nuclear ventriculography (NVG). Subjects
were healthy young men in situations where minimally invasive and unobtrusive
techniques were preferred. Interventions used included caffeine ingestion and
exercise. Validity of ZCG estimates of stroke volume index (SVI, ml/m2) was
tested in 35 men at rest. SVI was 49 +/- 9 by ZCG and 46 +/- 7 by NVG (r = 0.82).
Measurements of SVI during bicycle exercise showed no overall difference by the
two methods (F = 0.26, P = NS). Vascular resistance index (mean BP/CI) increased 
comparably by both techniques (+9.6% by ZCG and +9.7% by NVG) following caffeine 
(3.3 mg/kg). The reproducibility of ZCG was demonstrated in the day-to-day
consistency of caffeine's effect on vascular resistance in 3 other studies
(+11.9%, 12%, and 8.9%). Reliability across and within days was shown by repeated
tests in the same subjects (SVI, r's = .96, .92).CONCLUSION: Impedance
cardiography was shown to be a useful noninvasive technique for evaluation of
cardiodynamics in biomedical research since it was highly reproducible and
yielded equivalent results of relative changes produced by pharmacological and
physical challenge. In addition, there was good agreement with NVG in absolute
values for grouped data.

PMID: 2610419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1989;116(9):647-54.

[Melanomatous meningitis. Apropos of 3 cases].

[Article in French]

Delaunay M(1), Erny A, Méraud JP, Le Clech C, Verret JL, Géniaux M.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Dermato-Cancérologie, Centre Hospitalier Pellegrin, Bordeaux.

The meninges are frequently involved during the dissemination of malignant
melanoma. This "meningeal melanoma" ranks fairly high on the list of metastatic
meningites, side by side with meningeal carcinomatosis proper (i.e. related to a 
malignant epithelial tumour). Meningeal melanoma may be associated with a
cerebral metastasis or isolated, as in the three cases reported here. Although
its prognosis is sombre, its diagnosis is important since the possibilities of
treatment are limited but exist.CASE-REPORTS: Case 1. This was a 68-year old
woman who had initially presented with malignant melanoma in the maxillary region
(SSM level IV, thickness 2.9 mm). Two years after the primary tumor was excised, 
secondary lesions developed in the lymph nodes and bones. A few weeks later, the 
patient fell into mental confusion progressing towards delusion of persecution.
Neurological examination and CT scans were normal, but numerous melanoma cells
were found in the CSF. This woman died one month after the first neurological
signs had appeared. Case 2. This 63-year old man presented with bilateral
axillary adenopathy and inflammatory thoracic plaques which at histology had
proved to be metastases from a malignant melanoma of the shoulder surgically
treated 10 years previously. After 14 months of almost complete remission under
multiple chemotherapy (CPDD, ACTD, VDS), headaches and lumbosacral pain
developed. Standard radiography and CT of the spine gave normal results, and it
was only at the third lumbar puncture that the CSF was found to contain malignant
cells. The patient died 2 months after the first neurological manifestations.
Case 3. A 42-year old woman developed headaches and dysesthaesia in the arms and 
head. This was followed by oppositional semi-mutism. All exploratory examinations
were normal, except for that of the CSF which showed 18 cells/mm3, 50 p. 100 of
which were melanoma cells. The patient was transferred to the Dermatology
department where he underwent excision of a left scapular melanoma difficult to
classify (malignant blue naevus?). Combined treatment with Fotemustine* and DTIC 
produced an incomplete but relatively prolonged response. Death occurred after 8 
months.
DISCUSSION: A. Meningeal melanoma accounts for about 10 p. 100 of all metastatic 
meningites. The most frequent primary tumours in meningeal carcinomas are breast 
cancer and lung cancer. Malignant melanoma ranks third or fourth, but when the
relative frequency of each of these three malignant diseases is taken into
account, it appears that the risk of malignant melanoma is higher than that of
any other solid tumour. B. In 410 cases extracted from the literature, the
meninges were involved in 30 p. 100 of malignant metastatic melanomas found at
autopsy. There is no publication that makes it possible to evaluate the relative 
frequency of melanomas affecting only the meninges or coexisting with cerebral
metastases. This also applies to meningeal melanoma associated with non-neuro

PMID: 2688521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1989;116(3):201-11.

[Warts and epidermoid carcinoma after renal transplantation].

[Article in French]

Euvrard S(1), Chardonnet Y, Hermier C, Viac J, Thivolet J.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique Dermatologique, Hôpital E.-Herriot, Lyon.

Kidney transplant recipients suffer in the long-term from several cutaneous
disorders linked to the transplantation. We had the opportunity to observe
several patients presenting with pre-epitheliomatous keratoses and cutaneous
carcinomas associated with warts. We report herein on five cases that were
subjected to a clinical, histological and virological study. Material and
methods. Clinical and histological report. The patients were referred to use by
the Kidney Transplantation Department of the Ed. Herriot Hospital (Lyon). They
were examined clinically by one of us (S.E.). Virological studies. These were
performed on warts, keratoses, keratoacanthomas and squamous cell carcinomas.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) antigen was detected by indirect immunofluorescence
using rabbit antibodies raised against group-specific HPV antigen; viral DNA was 
detected by in situ molecular hybridization using biotinylated probes of types
1a, 2a, 16, 18 in all cases and type 5 in 14 lesions under stringent conditions. 
DNA-DNA hybrids were revealed by an alkaline phosphatase enzymatic
system.RESULTS: (a) Clinical data are summarized in table I (see fig. 1-5). (b)
Histological examination (fig. 6-9) showed either unequivocal squamous-cell
carcinoma or keratoacanthoma . The overall architecture of the lesions was
reminiscent of keratoacanthoma; however the lower limit was frequently not
sharply demarcated; in that area, cells contained large basophilic nuclei
exhibiting atypical features and numerous mitoses. The majority of lesions had an
histological appearance reminiscent of warts (table III), with upper epidermal
keratinocytes being vacuolized and containing basophilic (c) The results of
virological studies (fig. 10-13) are summarized in table III. HPV group specific 
antigen was detected merely in 5 out of 33 lesions; in contrast, in situ
molecular hybridization showed that 25 out of 33 lesions contained HPV DNA, with 
14 of them containing the potentially oncogenic types 16 and 18. Only 2 lesions
were positive with the prove HPV 5. Discussion. The overall incidence of cancers 
in Kidney transplant recipients (3 p. 100) is about 100 times higher than in
control populations (17). Cutaneous carcinomas account for about 50 p. 100 of
cancers. This incidence increases with time after transplantation and
sun-exposure. The delay on onset of cutaneous malignancies is relatively long (4 
to 7 years) (6,7) and becomes longer with a decreasing age of the patients at the
time of transplantation, as can be noted in our cases. Apart from Blohme (1),
most authors have reported a prevalence of squamous over basal-cell carcinoma.
None of our patients presented basal-cell carcinoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400
WORDS)

PMID: 2545155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):9-16.

Coagulase-negative staphylococcal bacteremia. Mortality and hospital stay.

Martin MA(1), Pfaller MA, Wenzel RP.

Author information: 
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 1;111(1):93-4.
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):945-6.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the attributable mortality and the excess length of
hospital stay resulting from coagulase-negative staphylococcal bacteremia.
DESIGN: Matched historical cohort study.
SETTING: Large university-based tertiary care center.
PATIENTS: Of 171 patients with hospital-acquired coagulase-negative
staphylococcal bacteremia identified by prospective surveillance of nosocomial
infections from 1 July 1984 to 30 June 1987, 118 met criteria for the study and
were matched to a control patient by age, sex, primary diagnoses, operative
procedures, and date of admission.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Success was achieved in 621 of 650 (96%) variables used
for matching. Staphylococcus epidermidis accounted for 92% of the bacteremias.
Twenty cases (17%) had evidence of septic shock, and 10 had disseminated
intravascular coagulation. The mortality rate in cases was 36 of 118 (30.5%)
compared with 20 of 118 (16.9%) in controls. The attributable mortality was 13.6%
(95% CI, 4.2 to 22.9) and the risk ratio for dying was 1.8 (95% CI, 1.2 to 2.7; P
= 0.006). The median length of stay was 46 days for cases and 37.5 for controls
(P = 0.0002).
CONCLUSIONS: Coagulase-negative staphylococci, the leading organisms causing
hospital-acquired bacteremias, are associated with mortality in excess of that
due to the underlying diseases alone. Moreover, they significantly prolong the
length of hospital stay. These findings show the importance of coagulase-negative
staphylococcal bacteremia in hospitalized patients.

PMID: 2908834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):17-23.

Dopamine effects on diaphragmatic strength during acute respiratory failure in
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Aubier M(1), Murciano D, Menu Y, Boczkowski J, Mal H, Pariente R.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of dopamine, which has an inotropic effect
on the myocardium and increases renal and splanchnic blood flow, on diaphragmatic
contraction.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: We studied the changes in transdiaphragmatic pressure during
electrical bilateral supramaximal stimulation of the phrenic nerves in eight
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease during acute respiratory
failure. In three patients, changes in diaphragmatic blood flow were also
evaluated.
METHODS: All patients were intubated and artificially ventilated. Stimulated
transdiaphragmatic pressure, cardiac output, evaluated with a Swan Ganz catheter,
and diaphragmatic blood flow, evaluated by timed volume collections of left
phrenic venous effluent (a catheter was introduced into the right femoral vein
and advanced into the left inferior phrenic vein) were measured before dopamine
infusion, every 10 minutes after the onset of dopamine infusion (10 micrograms/kg
body weight.min during 30 minutes) and 15 minutes after the end of dopamine
infusion. Arterial blood gases and pH were measured before and at the end of
dopamine infusion.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Arterial blood gases and pH were maintained within
normal range by mechanical ventilation throughout the study. With dopamine
infusion, heart rate increased by 17% (P less than 0.001) and cardiac output by
40% (P less than 0.001) on the average. The increase in cardiac output was
accompanied by a marked increase in diaphragmatic blood flow (30% on the average)
in the three patients in whom it was measured (P less than 0.001). Diaphragmatic 
strength also increased significantly during dopamine administration.
Transdiaphragmatic pressure for an identical phrenic stimulation increased by 30%
(P less than 0.001) on the average. The changes in cardiac output, diaphragmatic 
blood flow, and transdiaphragmatic pressure persisted throughout the infusion
period; all values returned to control values 15 minutes after the end of
dopamine administration.
CONCLUSIONS: Dopamine has a potent effect on diaphragmatic strength generation
and diaphragmatic blood flow in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease during acute respiratory failure. It is possible to improve diaphragmatic
contraction in these patients by administering pharmacologic agents that augment 
diaphragmatic blood flow.

PMID: 2908830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):79-84.

Effect of a geriatric consultation team on functional status of elderly
hospitalized patients. A randomized, controlled clinical trial.

McVey LJ(1), Becker PM, Saltz CC, Feussner JR, Cohen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 1;110(11):942.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of a geriatric consultation team on the
functional status of hospitalized elderly patients.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled clinical trial.
SETTING: University-affiliated referral Veterans Administration Medical Center.
PATIENTS: One hundred and seventy-eight hospitalized elderly men 75 years or
older admitted to medical, surgical, and psychiatry services, but excluding
patients admitted to intensive care units.
INTERVENTION: Eighty-eight intervention group patients received multidimensional 
evaluation by an interdisciplinary geriatric consultation team composed of a
faculty geriatrician, geriatrics fellow, geriatric clinical nurse specialist, and
a social worker trained in geriatrics. Results of the evaluation, including
problem identification and recommendations, were given to the patients'
physicians. Ninety control group patients received only usual care.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Intervention and control groups were comparable
initially. The major outcome variable was the Index of Independence in the
Activities of Daily Living (ADL) (Katz). Thirty-nine percent of the total study
population was functionally independent on admission, 27% required assistance
with one to three ADL, 22% required assistance with four to six ADL, and 12% were
completely dependent. Many patients remained unchanged from admission to
discharge: intervention group, 38%; control group, 39%. In the intervention
group, 34% improved and 28% declined; in the control group, 26% improved and 36% 
declined. Although these changes reflected a trend toward greater improvement in 
the intervention group, the results were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Among elderly patients entering an acute-care hospital,
approximately 60% had some degree of, and one third had serious functional
disability. Such patients are at risk for further decline during hospitalization.
A geriatric consultation team was unable to alter the degree of functional
decline. Geriatric units or consultation teams may have to offer direct
preventive or restorative services in addition to advice if improvements are to
be made.

PMID: 2642284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):66-78.

Esophageal chest pain: current controversies in pathogenesis, diagnosis, and
therapy.

Richter JE(1), Bradley LA, Castell DO.

Author information: 
(1)Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the importance of esophageal abnormalities as a potential
cause of recurrent noncardiac chest pain.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: We discuss the rapidly evolving new knowledge in this field 
after analyzing the literature in English published since 1979.
STUDY SELECTION: We reviewed 117 articles on recurring chest pain and paid
specific attention to the following nine controversial issues: the potential
mechanisms of esophageal pain, the differentiation of cardiac and esophageal
causes, the evaluation of new esophageal motility disorders, the use of
esophageal tests in evaluating noncardiac chest pain, the usefulness of
techniques for prolonged monitoring of intraesophageal pressure and pH, the
relation of psychologic abnormalities to esophageal motility disorders, the
possible mechanisms for decreased visceral pain thresholds in these patients, the
relation of esophageal chest pain to the irritable bowel syndrome, and the
appropriate therapies for these patients.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Through our review of the literature, we identified
areas of concordance and disagreement. These areas are discussed and an overall
perspective is provided.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing attempts to develop rational diagnostic and therapeutic
approaches to patients with noncardiac chest pain should include a
multidisciplinary approach involving basic scientists, gastroenterologists,
psychologists, and other clinical experts in the field of pain research.

PMID: 2642283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):51-65.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation. Current status and future directions.

Cheson BD(1), Lacerna L, Leyland-Jones B, Sarosy G, Wittes RE.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

PURPOSE: To assess the current status of high-dose chemotherapy with autologous
marrow transplantation in hematologic malignancies and solid tumors.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies reported between 1978 and May 1988 were identified
through computer searches using Medline and Cancerline and through extensive
manual searching of bibliographies of identified books and articles.
STUDY SELECTION: More than 160 studies that contained adequate response,
toxicity, or survival data were selected for analysis, including peer-reviewed
articles, book chapters, and proceedings of meetings. The most current or
complete references were used for series reported more than once.
DATA ANALYSIS: Information abstracted included regimen used, number of patients, 
response rates, disease-free and overall survival, and toxicities. A
meta-analysis of the pooled data was done.
RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: For many tumor types, autologous marrow transplantation
offers higher response rates than standard approaches. For leukemias and
lymphomas, response rates of 60% to 80% may be achieved with the potential for
cure. With solid tumors, response rates range from 30% in gliomas, 50% in
melanomas and colon cancer, more than 60% in lung cancer, and 80% in breast
cancer. Although responses tend to be short-lived, long-term survival can
occasionally be seen.
CONCLUSIONS: Results with autologous marrow transplantation can be improved
through systematically developed, carefully designed clinical trials that may be 
facilitated by collaborative research. Studies should focus on disease-directed
drug combinations, several courses of high-dose therapy, treatment at a time of
lower tumor burden, and reducing toxicity with hematopoietic growth factors.

PMID: 2642282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jan 1;110(1):24-30.

Thiazide-induced hyponatremia. Reproducibility by single dose rechallenge and an 
analysis of pathogenesis.

Friedman E(1), Shadel M, Halkin H, Farfel Z.

Author information: 
(1)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 May 1;110(9):751.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a single-dose of thiazide administered to
patients with previous thiazide-induced hyponatremia will cause hyponatremia and,
if so, to analyze its pathogenesis.
DESIGN: Prospective controlled study comparing patients with previous
thiazide-induced hyponatremia with two control groups.
PATIENTS AND CONTROLS: Eleven patients with thiazide-induced (Kaluril
[hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg; amiloride, 5 mg]) hyponatremia of less than 130
mmol/L at least 1 week before the study. Two groups of controls: 10 young healthy
volunteers and 11 elderly hypertensive patients previously treated uneventfully
with thiazide.
INTERVENTIONS: Administration of a single dose of hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg, and
amiloride, 5 mg.
MEASUREMENTS: Blood pressure, pulse rate, body weight, serum urea, creatinine,
sodium, potassium, magnesium, osmolality, plasma antidiuretic hormone, renin,
aldosterone and also urinary sodium, potassium, osmolality, and cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate (cAMP) before and 6 to 8, 12, and 24 hours after drug
administration.
RESULTS: Within 6 to 8 hours serum sodium decreased in patients, young controls, 
and elderly controls by 5.5 +/- 1.1 (mean +/- SE), 1.2 +/- 0.4, and 1.8 +/- 0.9
mmol/L, respectively (Py less than 0.001 [patients versus young controls], Pe =
0.017 [patients versus elderly controls]). Serum osmolality decreased in
patients, young controls, and elderly controls by 14.9 +/- 2.6, 2.8 +/- 1.6, and 
6.6 +/- 1.5 mmol/kg, respectively (Py less than 0.001, Pe = 0.012). All patients 
and only one control subject reached osmolality of less than 280 mmol/kg. At 6 to
8 hours all patients gained weight (0.85 +/- 0.13 kg) whereas young and elderly
controls lost weight (0.47 +/- 0.23 and 0.45 +/- 0.2 kg, respectively) (Py much
less than 0.001, Pe much less than 0.001). Patients' responses to the drug did
not differ from both control groups regarding sodium and potassium urinary
excretion, osmolar and free water clearance, and antidiuretic hormone blood
levels. Water restriction in one patient attenuated serum sodium reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a single-dose of a thiazide diuretic may predict the
development of hyponatremia. Increased body weight apparently due to polydipsia
may play a major role in the pathogenesis of thiazide-induced hyponatremia.

PMID: 2491733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Arch Kriminol. 1989 Jan-Feb;183(1-2):21-8.

[Experimental studies of the development of linear electric current marks].

[Article in German]

Schroeder G(1), Windus G, Tröger HD.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

By means of reconstructing electric current pathways electrophysical conditions
were explored causing electrocution death in the bathtub, according to many
authors quite often indicated by linear electric lesions. In our experimental
settings we observed appearance of circumscribed linear marks of pallor similar
to electric lesions in the region of postmortem lividity of corpses at the same
level as bathtub water. None of typical histological indicators could be seen in 
skin samples. So no evidence was given for electric burns even under conditions
of high density and extended duration of current. Similar linear marks and
equivalent histological results were found when corpses were put into the bathtub
filled with cold water without any experimental electric contact.CONCLUSIONS:
Linear marks of pallor may occur at water level even without any electric contact
to corpse or water neither bathtub.
IMPLICATIONS: According to specific conditions mentioned above linear so called
electric lesions at water level do not indicate electric current yet lethal
electric damage.

PMID: 2930325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Arch Putti Chir Organi Mov. 1989;37(1):179-86.

[Our experience in the treatment of idiopathic osteonecrosis of the femur head by
évidement and filling with bone grafts].

[Article in Italian]

Marcacci M, Becherucci L, Chiellini F, Ceccarelli F, Di Silvestre M.

The authors relate their experience in treating idiopathic osteonecrosis of the
femoral head with bone grafting.CASES: 18 hips under control for a period varying
from 8 to 3 years. Radiographic and clinical assessment before and after surgery 
according to Ficat, Arlet and Merle D'Aubigné. Four patients were affected with
idiopathic osteonecrosis of the femoral head. Results were very good in 4 cases
and quite good in 2 cases. Only one third of the results could be regarded as
positive. This modest achievement is partly due to the method employed. In order 
to obtain better results, however, an early diagnosis is required and patients
who are operated on should have quite a good bone mineralization.

PMID: 2619537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):146-8.

Use of peri-operative antibiotics in abdominal surgery: a criterion audit.

Hall JC(1), Hall JL, Christiansen K, Gibb SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital, Western Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the peri-operative use of parenteral antibiotics in 100
patients undergoing abdominal surgery.
METHOD: Prospective criterion audit.
RESULTS: There is a need for the close monitoring of antibiotic usage within
hospitals, because 39% of the patients received inappropriate antibiotic therapy.

PMID: 2486043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):142-5.

Use of seclusion in a psychiatric intensive care unit.

Baxter E(1), Hale C, Hafner RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Acute Services, Glenside Hospital, Eastwood, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use in a psychiatric intensive care unit of a newly
introduced seclusion room for the management of acutely disturbed and/or violent 
patients.
METHOD: A specially designed seclusion chart was used to document fully events
immediately before, during, and immediately after seclusion. Data from the charts
over a 6-month period provided the basis for the study.
RESULTS: The seclusion rate of about 2% of all admissions is less than that
reported in the UK and the USA, suggesting that the facility is not used
exclusively. Nursing staff welcomed seclusion as a means of reducing levels of
dangerousness in the unit, but emphasized that it should be monitored carefully
in order to prevent inappropriate use.

PMID: 2486042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):127-9.

Patient satisfaction survey: day surgery unit.

King B.

Author information: 
Eastern Sydney Area Health Service, Randwick, New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether or not patients undergoing procedures in the Day 
Surgery Unit (DSU) are satisfied with the environment and the care received.
METHOD: Discharge questionnaire.
RESULTS: Overall, patients treated in the Day Surgery Unit were very pleased with
the care that they received. As a result of concerns expressed in a pilot study, 
changes have been made to the information sheets given to patients using the DSU.
In addition, changes have been made to the Waiting Room Area as a result of
complaints about that area.

PMID: 2486039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):115-8.

Audit of the activity of a same day ward.

Duggan JM(1), Graham R.

Author information: 
(1)Royal Newcastle Hospital, New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the utilization of a 16-bed same day ward with particular
reference to preadmission, discharge and after-care planning, and complication
and delayed discharge rates.
METHOD: Three audits, each of 200 consecutive patients, were carried out during
1987 with a questionnaire suitable for desk-top data processing.
RESULTS: The same day ward was capable of being used by a wide variety of
disciplines, with one in five patients aged more than 70 years. Significant falls
in complication and delayed discharge rates occurred, with increasing use of
discharge notes and follow up arrangements by medical staff. Preadmission visits 
by a community nurse may facilitate the appropriate use of the ward by elderly
patients.

PMID: 2486037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):107-14.

New resuscitation trolley: stages in development.

Royse AG.

Author information: 
Department of Surgery, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, Victoria.

OBJECTIVE: Current resuscitation trolleys represent the major weakness in the
conduct of resuscitations for medical emergencies because they are generally not 
complete or standardized and lack a logical and systematic layout of equipment
and drugs. This paper is the first to define the main design principles to which 
an ergonomically better trolley should adhere.
METHOD: The logistics of getting the concept of developing a new resuscitation
trolley accepted by the hospital and the subsequent manufacture of a prototype is
described. Delays are analysed, and a detailed plan for the introduction and
trial of the prototype which stipulated areas of responsibility is discussed.
Assessment is by means of assessment sheets and fortnightly meetings between
participating departments.
RESULTS: This paper limits discussion to the period prior to clinical trials and 
highlights the difficulties encountered and the time taken to produce a prototype
resuscitation trolley for evaluation.

PMID: 2486036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Aust Clin Rev. 1989;9(3-4):103-6.

Parental views on children admitted to hospital with acute asthma.

Dawson KP(1), Mogridge N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Christchurch School of Medicine, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: To gather information on the background to the hospital admission of
children with an attack of acute asthma, on the parents' expectations and
perceptions of the hospital's role in treatment and the hospital's response to
these expectations.
METHOD: A structured questionnaire was administered to the parents of 127
children admitted to hospital with an acute attack of asthma of a mild or
moderate severity. At 10-15 days after discharge, further information was
obtained from 102 of the parents regarding their experiences of the hospital
stay.
RESULTS: Half of the children were self (parental) referred to hospital. The
modal time spent in hospital was one night. Overwhelmingly, the parents felt that
the admission had been justified and that discharge time was appropriate.
Parental expectations of information and education about the condition differed
slightly from the staff as judged by the information given to them. Many parents 
learned something about asthma and the majority felt that the brief admission was
not too disruptive. The reported perceptions and the actions of the parents are
in keeping with the hypothesis that the emergency care of childhood asthmatics is
moving from the community to the hospital, and that many see a role for the
latter in the long-term management of the condition.

PMID: 2486035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Autoimmunity. 1989;3(2):103-12.

Assays of TSH-receptor antibodies in 576 patients with various thyroid disorders:
their incidence, significance and clinical usefulness.

Macchia E(1), Concetti R, Borgoni F, Cetani F, Fenzi GF, Pinchera A.

Author information: 
(1)Cattedra di Endocrinologia e Medicina Costituzionale, University of Pisa, Italy.

The incidence and the significance of TSH-receptor antibodies in Graves' disease 
and in various thyroid disorders have been evaluated. TSH-binding inhibiting
antibodies (TBIAb) and thyroid stimulating antibodies (TSAb) were detected in a
large proportion of Graves' disease patients (TBIAb in 68.8% and TSAb in 77.8%), 
in a small number of patients with idiopathic myxoedema or Hashimoto's
thyroiditis, and were not detected in patients with endemic euthyroid goitre,
differentiated thyroid carcinoma and toxic adenoma. Furthermore, TSH-receptor
antibodies were present in some patients with toxic multinodular goitre (TBIAb in
12.7% and TSAb in 15.9%). When TSH-receptor and other thyroid autoantibodies were
compared, it was found that 13 of the 15 Graves' patients with negative tests for
thyroglobulin and thyroid microsomal antibodies were positive for TSH-receptor
antibodies. On the other hand, 9 of the 11 patients with toxic multinodular
goitre who had positive TSH-receptor antibody tests, also had serum thyroglobulin
and/or thyroid microsomal antibodies. No significant differences in the
prevalence of TSH-receptor antibodies were found in Graves' patients irrespective
of the presence of ophthalmopathy or pretibial myxoedema. Elevated TBIAb activity
at the end of anti-thyroid drug treatment was found in 52.9% of Graves' patients 
who subsequently relapsed, while in Graves' patients in remission TBIAb was
always negative. TSH-receptor antibody results were not predictive of the outcome
of radioiodine treatment in Graves' disease. Finally no correlation could be
found between TBIAb and TSAb in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.IN
CONCLUSION: the high incidence of TSH-receptor antibodies in Graves' disease
confirms their pathogenetic role in the development of hyperthyroidism;
TSH-receptor antibodies in Graves' disease are not significantly associated with 
the presence of ophthalmopathy or pretibial myxoedema; TSH-receptor antibody
assays may be useful for the diagnosis of Graves' disease in the absence of other
signs of autoimmunity. TBIAb seems to be a good predictor of relapse in Graves'
patients treated with anti-thyroid drugs; a fraction of toxic multinodular goitre
could be a nodular variant of Graves' disease.

PMID: 2577491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Basic Res Cardiol. 1989 Jan-Feb;84(1):55-62.

Electrophysiological interactions between carbachol and class I antiarrhythmic
drugs (lidocaine, quinidine)--experimental studies in rabbit atrial myocardium.

Langenfeld H(1), Köhler C, Haverkampf K, Kochsiek K.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik Würzburg, West Germany.

Cholinergic agents exert no direct effect on the fast Na+ inward current but may 
influence the binding characteristic of class I antiarrhythmic drugs in atrial
myocardium by shortening the action potential (AP) duration or by increasing the 
resting potential (RP). In order to examine such possible interactions we
performed experiments using conventional intracellular microelectrodes on
isolated preparations of rabbit atrial myocardium (Ke 2.7 mM, temperature 32
degrees C). At first the influence of the cholinergic agent carbachol (1 mg/l =
6.7 x 10(-6) M) on the RP and AP was examined at different stimulation rates
(1.0, 2.5, and 3.3 Hz). Thereafter measurements were repeated under the influence
of lidocaine (10 mg/l = 2.2 x 10(-5) M) or quinidine (5 mg/l = 2.2 x 10(-5) M)
alone and in combination with carbachol (1 mg/l).RESULTS: (statistically
significant differences, p less than 0.05): Carbachol increased the RP by about
10 mV and shortened the AP by about 60%. The maximal upstroke velocity of the AP 
(Vmax) was not significantly altered at 1.0 and 2.5 Hz, but increased under
carbachol at 3.3 Hz. After addition of carbachol to the lidocaine-containing
solution, Vmax increased to its control level at all stimulation rates. In
experiments with quinidine, Vmax also increased after addition of carbachol but
remained significantly below the control values.
CONCLUSIONS: Carbachol effects on Vmax are most likely attributable to earlier
recovery (caused by the shortening of the AP) and to faster recovery kinetics
(due to hyperpolarization). The attenuation of the class I effect of lidocaine by
carbachol can thus be considered mainly a consequence of the shortening of the
inactivated state which results in a reduced affinity of lidocaine to its
receptor and allows earlier dissociation of the drug. Minor binding of the drug
due to hyperpolarization may play the major role in interactions between
carbachol and quinidine.

PMID: 2923607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Basic Res Cardiol. 1989 Jan-Feb;84(1):5-12.

Halothane anesthesia reduces inducibility of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in
chronic canine myocardial infarction.

Denniss AR(1), Richards DA, Taylor AT, Uther JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

This study examined the effects of 2% halothane general anesthesia on ventricular
electrophysiological properties and inducibility of sustained ventricular
tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF). Dogs with chronic anterior
infarction and control dogs (no infarction) were studied before and after
anesthesia using chronically implanted ventricular epicardial electrodes. PQ
interval was increased by 15% with halothane, but QRS duration, QT interval, QTc,
and sinus rhythm cycle length were unaffected by anesthesia. Diastolic threshold 
was unchanged by halothane. Halothane caused significant increases of 10-30% in
ventricular effective refractory period (ERP) both in control and in infarct
animals. VT and VF were not inducible in any of the nine control animals either
before or after anesthesia. In infarct animals 34 of 75 (45%) had inducible VT or
VF prior to halothane, but the incidence of inducible arrhythmias was
significantly lower at 29% (22 of 75 animals) after halothane (p less than 0.01).
In 75% of animals in which halothane suppressed inducibility of tachyarrhythmias,
halothane-induced increases in ERP prevented achievement of the short
extrastimulus coupling intervals at which the arrhythmias were induced before
anesthesia.IN CONCLUSION: halothane anesthesia reduces the incidence of inducible
sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias in chronic canine myocardial infarction.

PMID: 2923606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Beitr Gerichtl Med. 1989;47:44-53.

[Objective assessment and quantification of postmortem muscle contraction to
electrical stimulation].

[Article in German]

Madea B, Henssge C.

The muscular contraction on electrical stimulation (rectangular impulses of 1 s
duration, 2 to 80 mA current intensity) was objectified using a sensitive force
transducer.RESULTS: The shape of the muscular contraction (time course) is
changing over the postmortem interval with two peaks (opening and closing
contraction according to Pflüger's law) in the early postmortem interval and only
one peak in the later postmortem interval. The relaxation period of muscular
contraction is increasing over the postmortem interval. The maximum force
developed during muscular contraction on definite current intensity is decreasing
over the postmortem interval. Increase of the relaxation period a decrease of the
maximum force in response to a definite current intensity are criteria allowing a
determination of the time since death on an objective basis.

PMID: 2818515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Beitr Gerichtl Med. 1989;47:503-7.

[Asbestos screening of autopsy material].

[Article in German]

Püschel K, Marten M, Dirksen M, Brinkschmidt C, Lieske K.

This study was designed to provide basic data on the deposition of asbestos in
human tissue in an urban area (Hamburg) with increased immission rates of fibres.
The analysis of the unselected autopsy cases was carried out by light microscopy 
counting the typical asbestos bodies (method: wet digestion of tissue and filter 
technique). -RESULTS: a) The average concentration of asbestos bodies (AB) per
ccm lung tissue (n = 80) amounts to 35 AB/ccm (men 38 AB/ccm, females 15 AB/ccm).
b) Asbestos bodies could be found regularly in extrapulmonary tissues (n = 20, up
to 13 different tissue samples per case), most frequently in lymph nodes, thyroid
gland and spleen. c) Lungs of children in the age of 7 to 16 years (n = 40)
showed asbestos bodies in 35% of the examined cases (with a range from 3 to 31
AB/ccm lung tissue).

PMID: 2554878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Czech Med. 1989;12(3):158-61.

Serum beta 2-microglobulin before and after renal and heart allotransplantation
and in infection.

Korcáková L(1), Svobodová J, Sedlácková E, Kaslík J, Kaslíková J, Horák J, Fabián
J, Kocandrle V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Prague.

beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2-m) serum levels were significantly elevated in
patients waiting for kidney transplantation. The levels decreased after
successful transplantation, even when they were never as low as in a control
group of healthy blood donors. A higher amount of serum (s-) beta 2-m was
observed also in heart transplant recipients. A significant reincrease in s-beta 
2-m occurred during rejection of renal allograft and during CMV and EBV
infection. The levels of s-beta 2-m were higher in patients infected with CMV
than in those infected with EBV.ABBREVIATIONS: beta 2-m = beta 2-microglobulin,
s-beta 2-m = serum beta 2-microglobulin, CMV = cytomegalovirus, EBV =
Epstein-Barr virus.

PMID: 2553359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Dev Pharmacol Ther. 1989;12(2):96-105.

Perinatal cimetidine exposure has no apparent effect on hepatic drug oxidative or
conjugative activity in adult male rat offspring.

Kane RE(1), Lamott J, Franklin MR, Galinsky RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.

Perinatal exposure of male rat pups to cimetidine has been reported to 'feminize'
gonadal and sexual function and to reduce serum testosterone in adult male
offspring. This study examined whether perinatal cimetidine exposure altered the 
androgen 'imprinting' of sex differences in mature male hepatic biotransformation
capacities. During the perinatal period, dams were infused with cimetidine (18
mg/kg/day) through Alzet osmotic pumps placed subcutaneously beginning at 10 days
of gestation. Pump function was confirmed by weekly high-performance liquid
chromatographic analysis of maternal urine for unchanged cimetidine. Male pups
were culled at birth with continued exposure to cimetidine in breast milk until
weaning. At about 100 days of age, in vitro and in vivo drug oxidative and
conjugative activities were measured in mature males. Early cimetidine exposure
did not alter hepatic oxidative (cytochrome P-450 content or monooxygenase
activity) or conjugative (UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity towards
testosterone, morphine, 1-naphthol, estrone, or sulfotransferase activity towards
acetaminophen or glycolithocholate) capacities in mature males. Two
sulfotransferase isoenzyme activities (acetaminophen sulfotransferase 2 and bile 
salt sulfotransferase I) previously shown to be regulated by gonadal hormones
were also unchanged. Serum testosterone was unaffected by perinatal cimetidine
exposure. Moreover, there were no effects of perinatal cimetidine exposure on in 
vivo pharmacokinetics or metabolic fate of acetaminophen.CONCLUSION: Perinatal
exposure of male pups to doses of cimetidine similar to those used in humans did 
not appear to affect the imprinting of sex differences on in vitro hepatic drug
metabolism or elimination kinetics of acetaminophen.

PMID: 2714162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1989;3(2):146-50; discussion 150-1.

Cardiac surgery in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) carriers.

Frater RW(1), Sisto D, Condit D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx,
NY.

Intravenous drug addicts have always been at risk for acquiring infective
endocarditis. In the United States in recent years, as many as 50% of addicts
have become infected also with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Since
testing became available in late 1984, we have knowingly performed open cardiac
surgery for endocarditis 11 times in HIV-positive patients. In 7, signs of
infection were still presented at the time of surgery. Four died within 2 months 
of continued or recurrent sepsis. The others are alive, although 1 has returned
to IV drug abuse. Open heart surgery was performed 4 times in patients whose
endocarditis had been cured by antibiotics but who were left with destroyed
valves and severe congestive cardiac failure. All these patients left hospital
alive and well. One has since died of AIDS. Ten addicts with endocarditis coming 
to surgery in the pre-AIDS era had similar valvular pathology but only 2 with
uncontrolled infection. All were cured by the combination of antibiotics and
surgery.CONCLUSIONS: in HIV-positive patients with endocarditis, continued sepsis
despite appropriate antibiotic therapy signals a potentially very serious
prognosis which may be due to an already seriously impaired immune state. By
contrast, in the absence of uncontrolled infection, HIV-positive patients appear 
to have a normal response to open cardiac surgery. Data on the risk to the
patient of progressing to AIDS and the risk to the surgical team of acquiring HIV
infection are unknown. Testing is vital for answering these questions.

PMID: 2627466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1989;135(6):795-840.

[The ontogenesis of the tympanic region of the Procaviidae (Mammalia:
Hyracoidea)].

[Article in German]

Fischer MS.

Author information: 
Lehrstuhl Spezielle Zoologie, Eberhard-Karls-Universität Tübingen.

Lindahl (1948) has described the early ontogenesis of 14 fetal stages of Procavia
capensis. The oldest fetus of his series has had a headlength of 20 mm. It is the
series with which the present account on the development of the tympanic region
in hyracoids starts. Further middle to late fetuses have been studied by means of
serial sections or macroscopic preparations. First 5 different ontogenetic stages
are described, and then we follow the development of different organs in their
ontogenesis.RESULTS: 1. The development of the tympanic region is almost
completed at birth, except for the external meatus. The bulla tympani is fully
ossified. 2. The entotympanic forms the medial and rostral part of the Bulla
tympani. Its anlage is first met at a headlength of 31 mm. From the very
beginning, it is fused with the tubal cartilage. Hyracoids do not have a caudal
entotympanic. The cartilaginous mass-taken for a caudal entotympanic by Van der
Klaauw (1926)-is actually a tympanic process of the petrosal. Extensive
discussion reveals that the structures named entotympanics in some eutherians are
most likely not homologous. 3. It is almost impossible to separate the
entotympanic from the tympanic in neonates already. This is due to the surprising
fact that the tympanic produces secondary cartilage at the suture between the 2
elements. 4. A gonial is lacking in hyracoids; instead the malleus is fixed in a 
peculiar way at the tympanic. 5. According to Lindahl (1948), the stapedial
artery exists till a fetal headlength of 14 mm. Then the artery obliterates but
the crura stapedis with the stapedial foramen persist. 6. Hyracoids possess a
tympanohyal which changes its relation to the facial nerve during ontogenesis. 7.
The development of the Eustachian sac (Diverticulum tubae auditivae) is described
and compared with its development in the horse, based on the few data available
in literature. 8. The internal carotid artery changes its course during its
ontogenesis. Up to late stages it passes over the caudal part of the Eustachian
sac and along the medial side of the Bulla tympani. A sulcus caroticus might
still be seen in neonates. It is only in postnatal development that it looses the
course along the bulla and passes along the mediocaudal side of the Eustachian
sac. 9. The formation of the Recessus meatus acustici externi in exactly takes
place the way described only once by Hammar (1902). The cavitation of the
recessus occurs independently of the cavity of the external meatus.

PMID: 2628139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Injury. 1989 Jan;20(1):39-41.

Rupture of the deltoid ligament in ankle fractures: should it be repaired?

Zeegers AV(1), van der Werken C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, St Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

In the 2 years after January 1984 we treated 290 fractures of the lateral
malleolus in adults, 169 (58 per cent) of them operatively according to the
AO-ASIF principles. In 28 fractures (10 per cent) there was also a rupture of the
deltoid ligament. These patients were all operated upon, without exploring the
medial side of the ankle joint. Postoperative treatment involved movements and
partial weight bearing for 6 weeks. These 28 patients were reviewed after an
average interval of 18 months. The Weber scoring system was used to assess the
results. In 20 cases there was a very good or good result. In eight cases the
result was poor. No patient had any sign of medial laxity either clinically or on
eversion-stress radiographs. Some patients had signs of osteoarthritis.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: After anatomical reconstruction of the lateral malleolus with perfect 
congruity of the ankle mortise there is no need to explore and suture the
ruptured deltoid ligament. After rigid internal fixation of the lateral malleolus
postoperative treatment can allow full function.

PMID: 2592064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Int J Cardiol. 1989 Jan;22(1):37-42.

Dopamine treatment of locally procured donor hearts: relevance on postoperative
cardiac histology and function.

Ballester M(1), Obrador D, Abadal L, Cladellas M, Bordes R, Manito N, Pons-Lladó 
G, Padró JM, Arís A, Caralps-Riera JM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Cardiologia, Servicio de Anatomia Patológica, Hospital de la
Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.

Administration of catecholamines can lead to myocyte damage. Dopamine treatment
is often used in potential cardiac donors to attain hemodynamic stability. Donor 
hearts exposed to dopamine are rejected or selected for transplantation without
clearly defined criteria. A prospective study was undertaken to analyze the
clinical relevance of dopamine-induced myocardial lesions in 25 hearts (21 male, 
4 female; 15-40 years, mean: 26 +/- 7) that were later used for transplantation. 
Donors were divided into those who had received dopamine and those who had not.
Dopamine doses ranged from 2-12.5 micrograms/kg/min (mean: 6.3 +/- 3). Time of
administration was 3-26 hours (mean: 16 +/- 8). Use of dopamine was unrelated to 
donor electrocardiographic findings, intra- or postoperative death, or difficulty
coming off by-pass. Postoperatively, filling pressures were similar in both
groups of patients at 2 and 10 days postoperatively. Left ventricular ejection
fraction was similar in the two groups. Dopamine requirements were significantly 
higher in the dopamine-treated hearts (P = 0.05). Histologic findings at first
biopsy revealed infiltration and cell damage in a similar proportion of patients 
in both groups.IN CONCLUSION: donor hearts exposed to dopamine can be accepted
for transplantation if doses ranging from 2-12.5 micrograms/kg/min have been
administered up to 24 hours.

PMID: 2647642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Int J Cardiol. 1989;25 Suppl 1:S57-61.

Peripheral vascular hyperreactivity in arterial hypertension.

Strangi T(1), Lombardi G, Braccili MP, Lo Sterzo E, Lalli A, Pennesi A.

Author information: 
(1)Servizio di Cardiologia, UTIC, Giulianova (TE), Italy.

Recent invasive research has revealed vascular hyperreactivity in arterial
hypertensive subjects. We have studied the peripheral vascular reactivity by
means of basic hand telethermography followed by a modest active vessel test, in 
order to verify the type and intensity of constrictive vessel response in
different groups. Basic telethermography is followed by cooling of the hand in
water at 10 degrees C for 30 seconds; after 2 minutes a telethermography control 
is carried out. Two responses were distinguished: normal and pathological. We
have studied 3 groups of 20 subjects each: group A suffering from apparent
arterial hypertension not undergoing therapy; group B with familial arterial
hypertension, and group C control. We could not find a meaningful difference in
the basic thermogram of the different groups. After stimulation, we found the
difference to be statistically significant.CONCLUSIONS: hypertensive subjects
give a pathological response to active blood vessel agents. The vascular
hyperreactivity becomes manifest before an abnormal increase in blood pressure is
recognized and a genetic cause is found.

PMID: 2620997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Int J Obes. 1989;13(2):173-82.

Limitations of diet therapy in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus.

Wolffenbuttel BH(1), Weber RF, Van Koetsveld PM, Verschoor L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III and Clinical Endocrinology, University
Hospital Rotterdam, Dijkzigt, The Netherlands.

Sixty-one patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and fasting blood
glucose of 12.0 +/- 0.6 mmol/l were studied before and after dietary treatment in
an outpatient setting. At the start of the study 33 patients were obese (body
mass index greater than 27.0 kg/m2). Twenty patients were newly diagnosed, median
known duration of diabetes in the others was 5 years. Beta-cell function was
measured by the release of C-peptide after i.v. injection of 1 mg glucagon (area 
under the curve of C-peptide = AUC-cp), as well as calculated according to the
formulae of Matthews. Insulin action was estimated by measurement of fasting
blood glucose, insulin and free fatty acids (FFA) concentrations. Non-obese
patients showed more severe beta-cell deficiency than the obese ones (AUC-cp 2586
+/- 158 vs. 3294 +/- 277 pmol/l per 15 min), and did not improve in metabolic
control during treatment. In the obese patients three response patterns to
treatment were observed: weight loss and improvement in metabolic control
accompanied primarily with increased beta-cell function or increased insulin
action, or worsening of metabolic control. Those with less impaired beta-cell
function and shorter known duration of diabetes showed the most favourable
response.IN CONCLUSION: non-obese type 2 diabetes patients with fasting glucose
levels above 10 mmol/l do not improve on dietary treatment alone; in obese type 2
diabetics weight reduction is essential and results in metabolic improvement,
irrespective of the preceding fasting blood glucose concentrations. Improved
beta-cell function as well as increased insulin action are responsible for this
improvement.

PMID: 2744929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jan;13(1-2):113-7.

Long-term studies of visual field changes by means of computerized perimetry
(Octopus 201) in eyes with glaucomatous field defects after normalization of the 
intra-ocular pressure.

Leydhecker W(1), Gramer E.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Hospital Würzburg, FRG.

126 eyes with open-angle glaucoma and defects of the visual field were studied
over five years (+/-1.3) by repeated perimetries with Octopus Perimeter, Program 
31, after the IOP had been normalized from 26.49 mm Hg to 19 mm Hg. All patients 
had suffered visual field defects in the period with increased pressure preceding
our study and had many perimetric examinations before. The aim of the study was
to check the behaviour of the visual field defects after pressure normalization. 
For evaluation of the visual fields, the upper most line of the test-points and
the 6 test-points surrounding the blind spot were disregarded. The evaluation of 
each field and the comparison with preceding fields (no change, better, or worse)
were done by the symmetry test of Bowker instead of the Delta Program, taking
into account each of the 61 test-points with a significance level of 5%. In each 
patient the eye with the heavier field loss was evaluated.RESULTS: 67% of all
eyes had no change during the observation time, 12% became better, and 21% worse.
Improvement of the visual fields occurred even in old age: 10% became better in
the age-group over 70 years. The total loss decreased in the 15 eyes which
improved by 269 dB. In eyes which deteriorated, the total loss increased by 282
dB. The good news of this study is that normalization of IOP can stop the further
decay of the visual-field in 67% and an improvement of the field loss is possible
even in old age of with heavy field loss.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2744939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Int Ophthalmol. 1989 Jan;13(1-2):51-6.

Tono-Pen, a new tonometer.

Hessemer V(1), Rössler R, Jacobi KW.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic, Justus Liebig University Giessen, FRG.

The Tono-Pen is a miniaturized Mackay-Marg tonometer with electronic signal
analysis and digital pressure display. In study 1, we compared the Tono-Pen with 
Goldmann tonometry in 108 healthy human subjects (216 eyes). In 33 of these
subjects, the IOP was changed in a range between 0 and 50 mmHg by a scleral
suction-cup system. In study 2, the Tono-Pen was compared with a Statham membrane
manometer in 6 humans (12 eyes), 3-6h after death. The IOP was changed in a range
between 0 and 60 mmHg by an infusion system. -RESULTS: Related to the Goldmann
tonometer, the Tono-Pen gave a small overestimation of IOP below 16 mmHg (maximum
deviation 1.5 mmHg at 0 mmHg Goldmann reading). Above 16 mmHg, however, the
Tono-Pen increasingly underestimated the IOP determined by Goldmann tonometry
(maximum deviation 8 mmHg at 50 mmHg Goldmann reading). Related to the manometer,
the Tono-Pen gave a small overestimation of IOP below 17 mmHg and small
underestimation above 17 mmHg (maximum deviation 2.5 mmHg at manometer readings
of 0 and 60 mmHg, respectively). -
CONCLUSIONS: Throughout the entire clinically relevant IOP range, an acceptable
relationship between Tono-Pen and manometer readings was found in human cadaver
eyes, whereas the relationship between Tono-Pen and Goldmann tonometric readings 
in the clinical study was found to be acceptable only in the low and
physiological IOP range. The considerable deviation from the Goldmann readings in
the high IOP range requires further modifications of the Tono-Pen.

PMID: 2663748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Ital J Surg Sci. 1989;19(2):165-71.

Endoscopic papillosphincterotomy and surgical sphincteroplasty for the treatment 
of bile duct stones: a comparative analysis.

Motta G(1), Ratto GB, Barone D, Pugliese V, Aste H, Gianquinto D.

Author information: 
(1)Semeiotica Chirurgica 1, Università di Genova.

One hundred and ten subjects with cholelithiasis entered this retrospective
study. Early and late results of 73 patients treated by endoscopic
papillosphincterotomy (EPST) were compared to those of 37 patients who had
surgical transduodenal papillo-sphincteroplasty (SST). The comparative analysis
was made in terms of clinical, biochemical and ultrasonographic findings. The
follow-up period ranged from 1 to 5 years in the first group and from 1 to 15
years in the second group. EPST and SST proved to be comparable in regard to
operative mortality and morbidity. EPST failed in removing large or impacted bile
duct stones in 47% of cases, while SST was uniformly successful. Long-term
results were good in most patients, either when treated by EPST or SST. The
5-year failure rate was 8% after EPST and 0% after SST. In the surgical group,
the 15-year failure rate was 5%. Serum alkaline phosphatase levels were higher
after EPST than after SST, suggesting the persistence of some degree of biliary
stasis in endoscopically managed patients. Pneumobilia was detected more often in
surgical patients, indicating that SST does create a wide and permanent
communication between the duodenum and the biliary system.IN CONCLUSION: 1) EPST 
may achieve acceptable success rates with low mortality and morbidity, even in
high risk patients; 2) the high number of long-term good clinical results seems
to indicate that sphincter re-stenosis after EPST is rare, at least for the first
5 years from operation; 3) SST is an effective and safe procedure, ensuring
excellent long-term results, provided that the technique of and the indication
for are correct (including Wirsung assessment); 4) the wide and permanent stoma
created by SST is not associated with recurrent cholangitis, if bile duct
re-stenosis does not occur.

PMID: 2666342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Electrocardiol. 1989;22 Suppl:253-62.

Ventricular fibrillation detection by autocorrelation function peak analysis.

Guillén SG(1), Arredondo MT, Martin G, Ferrero Corral JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electronics, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Spain.

The use of reliable automatic ventricular fibrillation (VF) recognition
techniques is critical in performing external automatic defibrillation. The
authors' objective was to develop a method to detect VF and life-threatening
arrhythmias, based on direct and simple peak analysis of the autocorrelation
function (ACF). This method may differentiate between fibrillating and
nonfibrillating rhythms, and in the first case between "course" and "fine" VF.
ECG records during ventricular tachycardia (VT) and VF were obtained from
patients during cardiac surgery. Segments 4 sec long were selected from tapes and
digitized at 200 Hz, then split into three groups (VT, VF regular waveform, and
VF irregular waveform). The positive peak P(j) of the ACF was defined as the
maximum value between two function zeros, and RPL(j) represents the relation
between P(j) and twice their own standard error. Parameter TR(1) was defined as
the relation between P(1) width and the time of occurrence. ACFs were computed
for the entire sample; RPL(j), D(j) = RPL(j) - RPL(j + 1), and TR(1) were
calculated for every record. The results indicate that: (A) If RPL(1) greater
than 1.2 and (1.6 greater than or equal to RPL(2) greater than 1) and (RPL(3)
greater than 0.6 and D(1) greater than 0), then consider VT; (B) If (1.2 greater 
than or equal to RPL(1) greater than or equal to 1) and (1 greater than or equal 
to RPL(2) greater than or equal to 0.9) and D(1) greater than 9, then consider VT
or VF with very regular waveform; (C) If (RPL(1) less than or equal to 1.8 and
RPL(2) less than 0.9) or (RPL(2) less than 1.5 and D(1) less than 0) or RPL(3)
less than 0.6, then consider VF. When 0.3 less than TR(1) less than 0.8, the
underlying arrhythmia is VF or VT, and when it is outside this range, it is
likely to be a supraventricular rhythm.CONCLUSIONS: (A) RPL(j) parameters have a 
high specificity for discriminating between VT and VF. The method is reliable and
simple. (B) The TR(1) parameter together with RPL(j) allow discrimination between
supraventricular tachycardias and ventricular originated tachyarrhythmias. (C)
Further analysis must be done using problem-oriented arrhythmias data bases.

PMID: 2614311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14(1):15-8.

[The influence of anthropometric factors, hemorheologic parameters and the level 
of arterial pressure on pulse wave velocity].

[Article in French]

Chanudet X(1), Bauduceau B, Girerd X, Clément R, Celton H, Larroque P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine Interne et Pathologie cardio-vasculaire, H.I.A. Bégin,
Saint-Mandé.

The measurement of the pulse wave velocity (PWV) is widely used in clinical
practice to assess the elasticity of the arterial system. It can be influenced by
a number of factors. The present study was undertaken to assess the possible role
of anthropometric factors, hemorheological parameters and blood pressure on this 
element.STUDY DESIGN: Sixty-three male subjects, mean age: 21 +/- 1.6 years,;
height: 177 +/- 7 cm; weight: 76 +/- 13 kg, were subjected to Doppler measurement
of the carotid-femoral PWV with synchronous recording of blood pressure. In
parallel, the following were carried out: nycthemeral blood pressure recording,
measurement of plasma vicosity and erythrocyte deformability, determination of
hematocrit, fibrinogen and total proteins. The Quetelet indices and body surface 
area (BSA) were calculated for each patient. These data were analyzed by multiple
linear regression.
RESULTS: Three parameters affect PWV: 24-hours diastolic blood pressure,
hematocrit, and body surface area (the coefficient of multiple correlation: r =
0.597, the percent variability of the explained variable is equal to 35.7%, the
regression equation can be written: PWV CF (cm/sec) + 0.283*Diast/24 hours +
0.742* hematocrit + 9.486* BSA = 0.629). The following parameters are not
involved: plasma viscosity, erythrometry, total proteins, fibrinogen, Quetelet
index, systolic and diastolic blood pressure during the investigation, mean
systolic pressure and mean heart rate over 24 hours.
COMMENTS: The PWV-diastolic pressure relationship is well-known. In contrast, the
effect of the hematocrit and body surface area has never been reported.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2921566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14(3):177-82.

[Efficacy of an extract of Ginkgo biloba in the treatment of chronic obliterating
arteriopathies of the lower limbs in stage III of Fontaine's classification].

[Article in French]

Saudreau F(1), Serise JM, Pillet J, Maiza D, Mercier V, Kretz JG, Thibert A.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique chirurgicale mutualiste, Lorient.

A controlled trial of Ginkgo biloba extract in injectable form (Tanakan 50 mg, a 
lyophilizate for parenteral use) was carried out versus a placebo as a
preoperative medical treatment of stage III (Fontaine classification) chronic
occlusive arterial disease of the lower limbs (with pain in decubitus). The 64
men and women patients in this multicenter study (32 in each group) were over 18 
years of age and had a cultural and intellectual level as well as a physical
condition allowing them to play an active role in the experiment (self-evaluation
of pain). During 8 days they received two daily infusions of 500 cc of normal
saline solution containing either 100 mg of Ginkgo biloba extract or a placebo of
identical appearance. During this period, anticoagulants were authorized;
hemodilution, vasoactive drugs and platelet anti-aggregates were forbidden;
pentazocine (Fortal, 50-mg tablets) was allowed at the patient's request. Pain
was rated according to a visual scale, with each patient marking a point between 
two extremes ("maximum imaginable pain" and "total absence of pain") 100 mm
apart. A questionnaire based on that of Melzack (McGill Pain Questionnaire)
completed this qualitative as well as quantitative self-evaluation of pain. The
results of these questionnaires were assessed on the basis of 4 scores, each
determined by the patient's choice among 3 evaluation figures. The chi square,
Student and Wilcoxon tests were used for statistical analysis.RESULTS: The two
randomly-composed groups with Ginkgo biloba extract and a placebo were comparable
(Table I). Analysis was based on 55 observations (26 in the extract group and 29 
in the placebo group).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2674312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14(4):307-11.

[Venous insufficiency and hemorheology. Influence of venous stasis on erythrocyte
aggregation and disaggregation].

[Article in French]

Le Devehat C(1), Vimeux M, Bertrand A.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de recherches d'hémorhéologie clinique, Centre hospitalier de Nevers,
Pougues-les-Eaux.

The aim of this study was to assess the rheological properties of blood in
patients with superficial venous insufficiency, in the very exact place of the
hemodynamic disturbance i.e. in the veins of the lower limbs.MATERIAL AND
METHODS: Several hemorheological parameters were studied in 20 patients (12
females and 8 males, 20 to 44 years old) with varicose veins of the lower limbs
(insufficiency of the superficial venous system and no history of thrombosis).
The results were compared to those obtained in 20 healthy controls matched for
sex, age, weight and schedule for blood withdrawal. Two blood samples were
obtained from the veins of the lower limbs of each subject: the first one at rest
and the second after 10 minutes of "venous stasis" (standing position and 100 mm 
Hg tourniquet), in a temperature controlled room (22 degrees C). Every blood test
was performed within one hour after blood withdrawal: --hematocrit
(microcentrifugation) and fibrinogen (nephelometry); --plasma viscosity in a 37
degrees C temperature controlled capillary viscometer (Myrenne KSPV4);
--erythrocyte filterability using the Hemorheometer (8% hematocrit and
polycarbonate nuclepore membrane with a pore diameter of 5 microns);
--erythrocyte aggregation and disaggregation (Myrenne AMM1 aggregometer and
Erythroaggregometer SEFAM).
RESULTS: 1. Hematocrit was not significantly different between both groups of
subjects at rest. However, it increased significantly after venous stasis in
patients with varicose veins (44.2% vs 41.8%, p. less than 0.05) and that was not
found in controls. 2. At rest, the fibrinogen level was higher in patients than
in controls (3.54 milligrams vs 2.41 milligrams, p less than 0.01). After statis,
a significant increased was found only in the patients group (3.93 milligrams, p 
less than 0.05). 3. In a similar way, plasma viscosity at rest was significantly 
higher in patients (1.23 mPa.s) than in controls (1.11 mPa.s, p less than 0.01), 
and after stasis a further increase was found in the patients group (1.32 mPa.s, 
p less than 0.01). 4. Also the erythrocyte filterability index was altered at
rest in patients (20.9) when compared to controls (15.1, p less than 0.01). A
significant increase of this index was only found in the patients group (23, p
less than 0.01). 5. Every aggregation parameters were significantly different at 
rest when comparing subjects groups, the most significant difference concerning
the threshold of disaggregation (171.2 s-1 vs 106.8 S-1, p less than 0.001.
Erythrocyte aggregation index was increased after stasis in patients but not in
controls, with both 600 S-1 and 3 S-1 shear rates. 6. Positive correlations were 
found between low shear rate aggregation index on one hand and fibrinogen (r =
0.61), plasma viscosity (r = 0.51) and erythrocyte filterability index (r = 0.47)
on the other hand...

PMID: 2584888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14(4):303-6.

[Value of somatosensory evoked potentials in thoraco- brachial outlet syndrome].

[Article in French]

Brudon JR(1), Brudon F, Bady B, Descotes J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire, Hôpital Edouard-Herriot, Lyon.

INTRODUCTION: Brachial plexus involvement in symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome
(TOS) is often difficult to assess from clinical data. Conventional EMG and nerve
conduction studies (NCS) do not seem reliable to all authors. For this reason,
our investigations of this syndrome were complemented by study of somatosensory
evoked potentials (SEP) in order to compare the results of these different
techniques.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten patients were studied, all of whom had prominent
vascular symptoms which led to their consulting a vascular surgeon. Only one had 
hand wasting without hypoesthesia. None had cervical rib or cervical spine
anomaly. In all cases, diagnosis was confirmed by arteriography or phlebography. 
Operations were decided on clinical data and results of vascular investigations. 
Patients were tested with conventional motor and sensitive NCS F-wave studies.
Needle EMG was performed in abductor pollicis brevis, first dorsal interosseus or
abductor digitiminimi. Their SEP were performed as for controls. Ten controls
were studied whose SEP were obtained at Erb's point (N9) and C2 cervical spine
level (N13) after percutaneous stimulation of median and ulnar nerves at the
wrist on both sides. The criterion of abnormality was the mean of controls + 2.5 
SD for latencies. Amplitude was considered as low when it was less than 50% of
the contralateral one.
RESULTS: For 2 patients EMG, NCS and SEP were abnormal. One had hand wasting and 
denervation in hand muscles as well as slowed median and ulnar sensory conduction
with low amplitude responses. SEP at Erb's point were slightly delayed after
ulnar stimulation. No cervical response was obtained after ulnar stimulation. The
second one had normal responses at Erb's point but delayed responses at the
cervical level. In addition, N13 amplitude after ulnar stimulation was low. Four 
patients had normal EMG, NCS and SEP. Two patients had normal EMG and NCS, but
their SEP was questionable since latencies were normal, even though amplitude was
low after median and ulnar stimulation. This was not considered this to be
abnormal since it was bilateral. For the remaining 2 patients (F.1), EMG and NCS 
and Erb's point SEP were normal, but C2 median and ulnar responses were delayed
in one case and C2 ulnar response amplitude was very low on one side only in the 
other. In conclusion, SEP were abnormal for 4 patients out of 10 but gave more
information than conventional EMG and NCS for only 2 patients. SEP abnormalities 
prevailed after ulnar stimulation.

PMID: 2584887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14(4):299-302.

[Action of nifedipine on the post-ischemic cold hyperemia reaction in Raynaud's
phenomenon].

[Article in French]

Vayssairat M(1), Blaison N, Baudot N, Evenou P, Gilard M, Mathieu JF.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine IV, Hôpital Broussais, Paris.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: To determine the effects of Nifedipine on cold stress
reactive hyperemia in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon.
DESIGN: Open trial comprising an observation period without treatment and a
treatment period with Nifedipine.
SETTING: Referral-based angiology department in a university hospital.
PATIENTS: 26 patients with definite Raynaud's phenomenon were included; 6
patients were withdrawn (3 for side effects, 1 for pregnancy, 2 for protocol
inobservance). INTERVENTIONS took place after one week of observation and one
week of treatment with Nifedipine per os 20 mg 3 times daily. At day 0, 7 and 14,
cold stress was performed to measure cold reactive post-ischemic hyperemia.
MAIN RESULTS: During the Nifedipine period, the number of attacks, their
intensity and resulting total disability decreased significantly, and hyperemia
increased significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms improvement in Raynaud's phenomenon with
Nifedipine. This calcium-channel inhibitory drug also improves cold reactive
hyperemia. This new cold test is inexpensive and easy to perform and appears to
be suitable for assessing hemodynamic objective improvement in drug trials
concerning Raynaud's phenomenon.

PMID: 2584886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Orthop Res. 1989;7(5):709-22.

Quantitative histologic study of the influence of spinal instrumentation on
lumbar fusions: a canine model.

Farey ID(1), McAfee PC, Gurr KR, Randolph MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Histomorphometric and microradiographic studies were performed on 28 beagle
hounds 1 year of age, followed up for 6 months after an L5-L6 anterior and
posterior spinal destabilization procedure--Group I (n = 7), destabilized
surgical controls; Group II (n = 7), posterolateral bone grafting after
destabilization; Group III (n = 7), Harrington rod instrumentation and
posterolateral bone grafting after destabilization; and Group IV (n = 7), Luque
instrumentation, and bone grafting after destabilization. Six months
postoperatively, device-related osteoporosis occurred in spines treated with
spinal instrumentation. Within the L5 vertebral body the mean trabecular width
was less for the two groups with instrumentation (Groups III and IV) compared
with the two groups without instrumentation (Groups I and II) (p less than
0.001). The bone formation rate [mm3/(mm3 x year)] x 10(3), which is based on the
mean distance between sequenced fluorochrome labels, for Group I (destabilized,
nonfused, noninstrumented dogs) was more than twice that of the other three
groups, which were all equivalent (p less than 0.05).CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Stress
shielding, or more correctly, device-related osteoporosis, probably can occur
within vertebrae in response to rigid spinal instrumentation. However, the
overall mechanical properties of vertebrae underlying spinal instrumentation are 
probably not at increased risk of fracture because the increase in
cross-sectional area of the vertebra and incorporated fusion mass more than
compensate for the loss of volumetric bone density.

PMID: 2668473  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


864. J Psychosom Res. 1989;33(3):293-305.

Beta-endorphin and components of depression as powerful discriminators between
joggers and sedentary middle-aged men.

Lobstein DD(1), Rasmussen CL, Dunphy GE, Dunphy MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Promotion, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque 87131.

This study identifies the relative importance of resting plasma beta-endorphin,
used as a marker of perceived stress, and components of non-clinical depression
that discriminate between physically active joggers and sedentary men. The
profiles of joggers (n = 10) and sedentary (n = 10) middle-aged men (40-60 yr)
were compared. The jogger group had been running about 20 miles per week for at
least 3 yr.RESULTS: as expected, the joggers exhibited greater physical fitness, 
but lower circulating beta-endorphin (measured with the subjects at rest). The
joggers also exhibited greater emotional stability (Eysenck scores), and lower
depression (MMPI Scale 2 scores). In addition, the joggers had lower scores on
MMPI subscales of depression: subjective depression, physical malfunctioning,
mental dullness, and brooding. Multivariate discriminant function analyses showed
that subjective depression, beta-endorphin, and physical malfunctioning were
powerful discriminators between the jogger and sedentary groups.
IN CONCLUSION: (1) subjective depression appeared to be the MMPI component of
depression that most powerfully discriminated between joggers and sedentary
middle-aged men in this study. (2) Lower beta-endorphin may be an adaptation to
exercise training and was related to greater emotional stability and lower
depression, especially lower subjective depression. (3) The lower beta-endorphin 
in the jogger group may be related to lower perceived stress in the joggers,
relative to the sedentary group.

PMID: 2529372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Steroid Biochem. 1989 Jan;32(1A):45-52.

Size heterogeneity of affinity labeled estrogen receptors in the MtTF4 tumor
whose growth is inhibited by estradiol, in pituitary gland and uterus.

Bouillard B(1), Albaladejo V, Joly-Pharaboz MO, Morel Y, Andre J.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM-U.34, UER Lyon Nord, Hôpital Debrousse, France.

Estrogen receptors (ER) of the MtTF4 tumor whose growth is inhibited by estradiol
(E2) were analyzed and compared to those of tissues whose growth is stimulated by
E2 (uterus and pituitary gland). Cytosol prepared in buffer containing protease
inhibitors was incubated with [3H]tamoxifen aziridine ([3H]TAZ) in the presence
or absence of non-radioactive competitor. The labeled proteins were precipitated,
separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in
denaturing conditions and detected by fluorography. Two classes of ER were
identified. The first class is of high molecular weight (Mr = 65,000-64,000). In 
normal tissues, it is indeed frequently made up of two subtypes as revealed by
the presence of a doublet on autoradiograms. In the MtTF4 tumor these subtypes
were only rarely suspected and never they were as marked and distinct as in
normal tissues. The second class, of low molecular weight (Mr ! 54,000-52,000),
is also frequently made up of two subtypes in the uterus and the proportion of
this class is higher in the uterus of mature than of immature rats. The MtTF4
tumor contains this class of ER but, due to the presence of non-specifically
labeled proteins in this region, its relative amount cannot be estimated and the 
doublet was exceptionally revealed. In the pituitary gland, this small receptor
has not been found.CONCLUSIONS: (i) On the basis of molecular weight analyses,
estrogen receptors are heterogeneous, (ii) the ER pattern depends on the type of 
tissue and the sexual maturity of rats but all the tissues examined contained at 
least one type of the "classic" high molecular weight receptor, and (iii) no
evident correlation was found between the ER pattern and the positive or negative
response to estradiol.

PMID: 2913400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Surg Res. 1989 Jan;46(1):49-59.

Traumatic shock and head injury: effects of fluid resuscitation on the brain.

Wisner D(1), Busche F, Sturm J, Gaab M, Meyer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Davis, Sacramento 95817.

The effects of resuscitation of traumatic-hemorrhagic shock on the brain are
unknown. Traumatic shock in sheep (fracture/crush injury, 2-hr hemorrhage to 40
mm Hg) was followed by resuscitation to baseline mean arterial pressure. Two
groups without brain injury were resuscitated with lactated Ringer's (LR1, n = 7)
or albumin (ALB1, n = 6). Focal brain injury was added in two further groups
(LR2, n = 6; ALB2, n = 6). Hemodynamics, intracranial pressure (ICP), EEG, and
colloid osmotic pressure (COP) were followed. Brain water (BW) and cerebral blood
volume (CBV) were compared to those of controls (C, n = 7).RESULTS: ICP rose in
all groups. Animals without brain injury did not have increased brain water.
Below are results for brain-injured animals after resuscitation (mean +/- SEM).
(table; see text) Maintaining COP during initial resuscitation does not minimize 
cerebral edema: the effects of LR and ALB were similar in this setting. Focal
brain injury causes edema but does not cause large increases in ICP with initial 
resuscitation.

PMID: 2915535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Life Sci. 1989;45(16):1475-82.

Mechanism of action of neurotensin at the ileocecal sphincter region.

Rothstein RD(1), Ouyang A.

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Section, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, PA 19104.

Neurotensin, a neuropeptide identified in the distal small intestine, plays an
unclear role in ileocecal sphincter regional function. The purpose of this study 
was to determine the effect and mechanism of action of neurotensin on the feline 
ileocecal sphincter (ICS), proximal colon, and distal ileum. Intraluminal
pressures were recorded at these sites in anesthetized cats after superior
mesenteric artery injection of neurotensin. Dose dependent tonic and phasic
contractions were seen at all sites. Peak pressure responses were seen at the
maximal dose used and were greater for the ICS than the distal ileum and the
proximal colon. The threshold dose for peak pressures for neurotensin was 0.05
microgram/kg for all sites with the maximal peak pressures occurring at the
maximal dose used (100 micrograms/kg). The motility index (MI [number of
contractions x mean amplitude of contractions]) was determined for three minutes 
before and after neurotensin injection. The change in the motility index after
neurotensin increased at doses above 0.05 micrograms/kg for the ileum and the ICS
and 0.25 microgram/kg for the colon. Maximal responses for the motility index
were seen at 1 microgram/kg for the distal ileum, and 10 micrograms/kg for the
ICS and the proximal colon, with the greatest response seen at the ICS.
Neurotensin-induced ICS relaxation was seen at 1 microgram/kg (50 +/- 10%, p less
than 0.01) in 33% of cats. The contractile responses of the distal ileum and the 
proximal colon were not inhibited by naloxone, trimethaphan, tetrodotoxin, or
atropine. The ICS contractile response was decreased by tetrodotoxin by 53%, p
less than 0.05. The alpha 2 antagonist, yohimbine reduced the neurotensin induced
ICS contraction from 31.6 +/- 3.4 to 21.9 +/- 3.3 mm Hg, p less than 0.05.
Prazosin had no effect on neurotensin-induced contractions. In the presence of
cimetidine and diphenhydramine, trimethaphan did not affect the
neurotensin-induced contractile response at all three sites. However, neurotensin
inhibited contractions induced by trimethaphan alone at all three
sites.CONCLUSIONS: 1. Neurotensin causes a dose-dependent contractile response at
the distal ileum, ICS, and proximal colon. 2. Neurotensin has an inhibitory
effect at all three sites. 3. The contractile response at the distal ileum and
the proximal colon is mediated via smooth muscle receptors. 4. The contractile
response of neurotensin at the ICS is mediated partly via alpha 2 receptors and
partly via smooth muscle receptors.

PMID: 2811604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Med Pregl. 1989;42(1-2):25-8.

[Clinical and immunologic aspects of chlamydial infections in infertile women].

[Article in Croatian]

Jevremović M, Vidaković B, Krstić L, Zizić V, Kovacević D, Pazin S, Milenković V,
Velimirović M.

Chlamydia Trachomatis (CT) infection of the genital tract ranges from clinically 
severe to the silent subclinical forms of pelvic inflammatory diseases which can 
result in fallopian tubes obstruction and subsequent infertility. Our
investigations: The serum antichlamydial antibodies of 30 infertile patients and 
the cultures of Chlamydia Trachomatis from specimens of endometrial biopsies were
determined as well as HSG and laparoscopic examinations.METHODOLOGY: The
evaluation of serum antichlamydial antibodies were measured by ELISA test. The
endometrial specimens for culture of Chlamydia Trachomatis were collected
transcervically from the uterine cavity. The statistical analyses were calculated
on the basis of Student t test.
RESULTS: Immunological determinations showed the presence of antichlamydial
antibodies in 43.6%. The endometrial cultures yielded growth of CT (36.6%) and
histological signs of chlamydial endometritis were also discovered. This study
pointed to the positive correlation between the results of endometrial biopsies
(cultures), immunological (serological) investigations and clinical examinations 
showing that the chlamydial infection reached the Fallopian tubes from the
endometrium which could result in infertility.

PMID: 2761474  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Jan;63(1):131-45.

[Changes in the spinal evoked potential induced by lateral compression of the
spinal cord in dogs].

[Article in Japanese]

Nozawa M.

Author information: 
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Juntendo University, School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.

The paper deals with the changes of the spinal evoked potential during and after 
lateral compression of the spinal cord in mongoloid dogs along with the motor
recovery seen for a two week period.METHOD: Lateral compression was applied to
the spinal cord extradurally at a speed of 1 mm per five seconds using a
specially designed apparatus after laminectomy. A stimulating electrode was
placed at the L5 level on the dorsum of the dura along the midline. Three
recording electrodes were placed: one at the T6 level (R1), and the other two
just cranially (T12, R2) and caudally to the compression level (L1, R3). The
compression was released right after the R1 potential became flat. The dogs were 
kept alive for two weeks, during which time the evoked potentials were monitored 
at 1 day, 1 week, and 2 weeks.
RESULTS: 1) In the recovery of amplitude, the first potentials were generally
better than the second potentials. 2) The latency showed good recovery in 24
hours. 3) Many dogs showed good recovery in their motor function.

PMID: 2723493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol. 1989;31(2):65-8.

A randomized study comparing ciclosporin A and antithymocyte globulin for
treatment of severe aplastic anemia.

Esperou H(1), Devergie A, Lehn P, Lallemand A, Gluckman E.

Author information: 
(1)Unité Fonctionnelle de Greffe de Moelle, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

This report summarizes results of the treatment of SAA with ciclosporin A (CSA)
or antithymocyte globulin (ATG) in 82 patients (pts) randomized since January
1986 from 28 centers.STUDY DESIGN: at diagnosis, pts with established
international criteria of SAA and without an HLA identical sib donor were
randomized between 2 groups: CyA 4 to 6 mg/kg/d orally for 6 months, or H. ATG 15
mg/kg IV for 5 days associated with Methyl-Prednisolone 5 mg/kg for 5 days then
gradually tapered off until day 60. At 3 months follow up, pts with a complete
response (CR) or a partial response (PR) received no further therapy, pts with a 
failure (F) or minimal response (MR) were switched in the other group. All
patients were followed regularly for at least 1 year.
RESULTS: at 3 months, all pts with CyA were alive (36 pts) and only 26/35 in the 
ATG group because of 9 early deaths due to severe infection. In the CyA group, 5 
were in CR or PR and 31 in MR or F. Subsequently, 5 received a mismatched BMT and
died, 8 remained on CyA, 20 had ATG with, at 1 year, 3 F and 11 PR + CR, 5 pts
are too early to evaluate. In the ATG group, 26 pts were alive at 3 months, 6 had
a CR or PR, 20 failed. Two pts received a mismatched BMT and died. Fifteen
received CyA with, at 1 year, 1 failure and 7 responses (7 pts are too early to
evaluate at 1 year).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2671930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Pediatr Nurs. 1989 Jan-Feb;15(1):76-9.

Identifying signs that nurses interpret as indicating pain in newborns.

Jones MA.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose is to explore the behavioral and physiological 
signs that nurses interpret as suggesting the possibility of pain in the newborn.
METHODOLOGY: The data collection instrument used was a General Information and
Pain Sensitivity Questionnaire asking nurses to identify those physiological and 
behavioral signs that suggest the possibility of pain in the newborn. It was
distributed to 109 nurses who worked in units where newborns are hospitalized;
this was in a 1,000-bed tertiary care, university-affiliated hospital in the
Midwest.
RESULTS: Eighty-one nurses responded (74%). Three signs were selected "always"
with a high frequency: fussiness, crying, and grimacing. When the scores of
"always" and "usually" were combined for these three items, the figures are 96%, 
79%, and 79%, respectively for selection rate.
CONCLUSIONS: The fact that only three signs were selected with confidence
suggests the difficulty and tentative nature of nursing decisions regarding the
assessment of pain in the newborn.

PMID: 2922221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1989;302:253-70; discussion 271-3.

Predicting reproductive outcome from sperm measurements in Swiss (CD-1) mice.

Morris RW(1), Morrissey RE.

Author information: 
(1)Analytical Sciences, Inc., Durham, NC 27713.

Recent advances in the quantification of sperm characteristics, particularly by
techniques of videomicrography, raise the problem of identifying a subset of
sperm measurements that can accurately predict reduced reproductive performance
in the presence of a reproductive toxicant. This paper discusses and illustrates,
with sperm data from Swiss (CD-1) mice, three properties of sperm measurements in
addition to the association with reproductive outcome that can be used as
objective criteria to distinguish among potentially useful sperm characteristics.
Identification of these properties was motivated by the need to single out sperm 
characteristics that would yield hypothesis tests with good power to distinguish 
groups with altered sperm characteristics from those with normal sperm
characteristics. The list of desirable properties of sperm characteristics
includes: a)MEASUREMENT: The most useful sperm characteristics will exhibit low
measurement bias and high measurement precision. b) Distribution: Sperm
characteristics that follow the class of normal distributions allow easy
identification of the most powerful hypothesis testing procedures. c) Variation: 
Sperm characteristics that exhibit limited variation from individual to
individual will make altered values easier to detect. d) Correlation: Sperm
characteristics that exhibit a high correlation with reproductive outcome will be
most useful. MEASUREMENTs of sperm concentration, sperm motility, and abnormal
sperm were examined for each of these properties in Swiss (CD-1) mice. For
control animals, evidence of measurement bias between labs and significant
variation among studies within labs was found for each sperm characteristic, with
measurements of abnormal sperm exhibiting the least bias. Sperm concentration and
the natural logarithm of abnormal sperm appeared normally distributed. Individual
to individual variation was substantial for sperm motility and sperm
concentration, both of which required an approximately 30% decrease in mean to
achieve good statistical power. In contrast, abnormal sperm required only a 4%
increase in mean to achieve the same power. In spite of the measurement noise
associated with these sperm characteristics, data from 25 experiments indicated
good agreement between the results of hypothesis tests based on sperm
characteristics and reproductive outcome as judged by fertility and the number of
pups. The same conclusions reached for reproductive outcome were reached in 19 of
24 experiments for sperm motility, in 19 of 25 experiments for sperm
concentration, and in 17 of 24 experiments for abnormal sperm.

PMID: 2755953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1989;317:1301-10.

An example of a clinical trial in patients with Alzheimer's disease: some
methodological issues.

Lucca U(1), Menasce G, Comelli M, Cizza G, Bressi S, Frattura L, Tiraboschi P,
Spagnoli A.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri Milan, Italy.

In ten Italian centers--hospitals and geriatric institutions--130 outpatients and
inpatients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease were recruited for a
randomized, double blind, placebo controlled clinical trial with
1-acetylcarnitine. In planning the trial, we had to deal with some important and 
largely open issues.DIAGNOSIS: we decided not to use neuropsychological tests
(NPT) in the diagnostic process, both for the unknown risk of false positive and 
false negative rate and to improve the feasibility of the trial.
FOLLOW-UP: it must be representative of the disease and consequently we chose to 
follow the patients for one year (assessment at baseline, 3rd, 6th and 12th
month) in spite of a possible high rate of drop-outs.
ASSESSMENT: to assess the patients' outcome we used NPT and behavioural scales.
However, the validity, reliability and feasibility of these instruments are
rarely discussed and their usefulness as indicators of the relevant aspects of
the disease needs a careful evaluation.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: in this type of trial there is both a high risk of
alpha-error, in view of the high number of NPT and behavioural scales used to
assess the drug efficacy, and a high risk of beta-error connected with the
usually small sample size. Thus, the role of small trials in defining the
risk/benefit ratio of a treatment needs to be discussed.

PMID: 2690098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 1989;13(3-4):341-51.

The gabaergic hypothesis of depression.

Lloyd KG(1), Zivkovic B, Scatton B, Morselli PL, Bartholini G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoires d'Etudes et de Recherches Synthélabo, Paris, France.

1. GABAergic mechanisms have been generally ignored in the study of mood
disorders and antidepressant drug (AD) action. Recently data have accumulated
indicating that GABAergic mechanisms may be involved in both of these. 2. Mood
disorders: GABA levels are reported to be low in the CSF and plasma of depressed 
patients and are related to mood changes. GABAB receptors are decreased in the
frontal cortex in two rodent behavioral models of depression and GABA release is 
reported diminished in the hippocampus. GABAergic drugs (progabide, fengabine)
reverse the behavioral deficits in the rodent models and exert clear therapeutic 
effects in depressed patients. 3. AD action: In behavioral models imipramine
upregulates GABAB receptors only in those animals which respond behaviorally to
the AD. In naive rats repeated administration of varied ADs upregulates GABAB
receptors in the frontal cortex whereas non-ADs (including amphetamine) do not.
Bicuculline inhibits the action of imipramine in the learned helplessness model. 
GABAA receptor stimulation enhances noradrenaline release in the ventral NA
pathway. 4.CONCLUSIONS: GABAergic mechanisms likely play a role in the modulation
of mood and increasing GABAergic tone exerts and antidepressant effect. Actions
at GABA synapses appear to be a fundamental facet of ADs, perhaps together with
beta-adrenoceptor mediated events.

PMID: 2664889  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Psychother Psychosom. 1989;52(1-3):47-50.

Chronic haemodialysis and personality.

Ventura MC(1), González R, Alarcón A, Morro A, Llabres E.

Author information: 
(1)General Hospital Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, Spain.

The object of this study was to detect the influence of time under treatment on
haemodialysis on the personality. The samples are a group on haemodialysis (EXT, 
n = 62) and a control group (CON, n = 33). The haemodialysis patients were
grouped by years under treatment (EX1 less than 4 years, and EX2 greater than 4
years). To study personality variables, the Eysenck Personality Inventory test
was used. The results showed, using t test, significant differences on
neuroticism (N), extraversion (E) and lie or dissimulation (L), between both
experimental subgroups (N, p less than 0.01; E, p less than 0.05 and L, p less
than 0.02) as well as between experimental and control groups (N, p less than
0.01; E, p less than 0.01 and L, p less than 0.001). On the experimental group
(EXT) a high neuroticism (mean = 73.1) level was observed associated with a low
level of extraversion (mean = 41.8) and lie or dissimulation (mean = 29.9).
According to the observed results, the length of time on haemodialysis affects
the groups in a different, significant way. In the EX2 it is observed that the
scores decrease on the three personality dimensions, their differences being
significant.CONCLUSIONS: This chronic illness places patients first on a very
high level of neuroticism, as a confrontation to the stress provoked by their
situation. Following this, due to the patients' awareness of their own chronic
state, the level of neuroticism decreases, their high level of introversion and
the absence of lie as a possible defense mechanism of denial facing their hard
reality being more significant.

PMID: 2486401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Public Health Rev. 1989-1990;17(4):269-77.

Trends in human immunodeficiency disease in Israel.

Slater PE(1), Costin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: A total of 144 cases of AIDS and 28 cases of AIDS-related
complex (ARC) were reported to the Israel Ministry of Health for the period
1980-1990. In this longitudinal observational study, we examine the progress of
the disease in Israel, a country having experienced relatively few cases and with
a cumulative incidence rate which is low compared to other developed nations.
RESULTS: The cumulative AIDS incidence was 34 cases/million. There were also 545 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seropositives reported. Of the 172 AIDS/ARC
cases, 161 (93.6%) were males. Almost half (45.9%) were homosexuals, 14.5% were
intravenous drug abusers, and 13.4% were persons with hemophilia. Between 1980
and 1988, 51.5% of all cases were homosexuals and 11.3% intravenous drug abusers 
(IVDAs); while in 1989-1990, the relative contribution of homosexuals fell to
38.7% and that of IVDAs rose to 18.7%. The rate of increase in the annual
incidence rate of AIDS has been lower in Israel than elsewhere, but trends in the
distribution of risk groups among cases are similar to what has been seen in
other Western countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Periodic seroprevalence surveys and studies of specific high-risk
behaviors in defined populations at risk are needed to help predict the course
the AIDS epidemic will take in Israel in the 1990s, and the effect of two mass
immigrations, from Ethiopia and the USSR, will have to be assessed. Increased
efforts will be needed in the development and delivery of specific targeted
educational programs in the 1990s.

PMID: 2491512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Radiol Clin North Am. 1989 Jan;27(1):1-3.

Classification of pancreatitis.

Freeny PC.

Author information: 
Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Virginia Mason Clinic, Seattle, Washington.

The diagnosis of acute and chronic pancreatitis should be made by histopathology,
but this is usually impossible. Thus, the classification system proposed by the
Cambridge and Marseille Symposia must suffice at the present time. Acute
Pancreatitis: Diagnostic Criteria. 1. An elevation of plasma levels of pancreatic
enzymes greater than ten standard deviations above the laboratory normal. 2.
Evidence of acute pancreatitis from imaging, laparotomy, and/or autopsy. Clinical
Classification. 1. Etiology where known (if unknown, this should be stated). 2.
Degree of severity: (a) mild (no multisystem failure and uncomplicated recovery);
(b) severe (multisystem failure and/or development of a complication that should 
be stated, for example, pseudocyst). Chronic Pancreatitis: Diagnostic Criteria.
1. Permanently impaired exocrine pancreatic function tests (greater than two
standard deviations below the normal for the test). 2. Permanent morphological
change in the gland. Clinical Classification. 1. Etiology where known (if
unknown, this should be stated). 2. Pain present or absent. 3. Degrees of
severity (mild, moderate, or severe changes in morphology and/or function).
4.COMPLICATIONS: cysts, portal hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and so forth.

PMID: 2908829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Rev Chil Obstet Ginecol. 1989;54(3):158-63.

[Glucose overload test. Screening of gestational diabetes in population of
pregnant women with risk factors for diabetes. Clinical experience].

[Article in Spanish]

Guajardo H, Alvarez M, Vargas L, Valenzuela MA, Sepúlveda H, Lavín P, García R.

Clinical utility of the Overload Test with 50 g. of Oral Glucose (PSG) is
evaluated, in 513 pregnancies with risk factors for diabetes. Of the 933 PSG
which were made, 13.7% were positive (limit value: plasma glucose of much less
than 150 mg/dl at 1 hour); the test were made after 20 weeks of gestation in
82.8% of the cases. Of the 128 positive PSG, 73 positive Oral Glucose Tolerance
Test were obtained (O'Sullivan criteria). The prevalence of gestational diabetes 
found in this group was 15.2%. There was no difference on the most frequent risk 
factors (family history, obesity and macrosomia) between the general population
in the study and the group of Gestational diabetes.CONCLUSION: PSG, because of
its easy application, low cost and excellent tolerance is a test which should be 
included among the prenatal routine test as screening for gestational diabetes in
our media.

PMID: 2490918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 1989;75(5):345-6.

[Post-traumatic habitual luxation of the extensor carpi ulnaris tendon].

[Article in French]

Goaid B(1), Cargouri R, Moula T.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Orthopédic-Traumatologie, C.H.U., Sousse, Tunisie.

The authors refer to one case of isolated post traumatic habitual luxation of the
extensor carpi ulnaris tendon. They notice: The rariety of such luxation: only 12
cases detected in the literature. Mechanism: brutal pronation-adduction of the
wrist. The most important clinical sign: audible bounce in the prono-supination. 
Principal lesion: dilapidation or rupture of the tendon sheath.TREATMENT:
surgical reparation of this sheath. The orthopedic treatment even in acute
stadium will not prevent from evolution to the habitual luxation, source of
permanent functional constraint.

PMID: 2682819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 1989;9(2):83-90.

[Megaloblastic anemia and gastrointestinal manifestations in Lima. The tip of the
iceberg?].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz Gil W(1), Tokeshi T, Peralta T, Pichilingue O, Chahud A.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Hipólito Unánue, Unidad de Hematología, Lima, Perú.

The records of the last three years from the Hematology service are reviewed and 
twenty patients (6.23%) fulfilling the inclusion criteria were chosen out of a
total of 316.RESULTS: pallor and malaise 100%, change in bowel movements 75%,
nausea, vomiting and hemorrhage 40%, jaundice 25%, nausea aroused by food 20%,
infection 10%. Severe hyporegenerative anemia 100%, thrombocytopenia 75%,
pancytopenia 60%. We found as associated conditions: gynecological and obstetric 
history 25%, enteric and peritoneal tuberculosis 15%, and without an apparent
cause (primary) 40%. Levels of vitamin B12 and folic acid were measured in eleven
patients and the finding were: B12 deficiency in six (54.5%), folic acid
deficiency in three (27.2%) and deficiency of both in two (18.1%). With the
exception of one patient who died from sepsis, all the other patients had a
favorable outcome with vitamin treatment. We found folic acid deficiency
associated with ferropenia mainly in those patients with obstetric history; the
combined deficit in those patients with an associated pathological process, and
B12 deficiency in the group without any apparent cause. From the available
national information and our observations we can conclude that we are facing an
outbreak of megaloblastic anemia that frequently goes on with gastrointestinal
manifestations and for which the cause has not been elucidated.

PMID: 2519237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Rev Mal Respir. 1989;6(3):255-60.

[Chronologic relationship between gastroesophageal reflux and asthma.
Simultaneous study of the measured pH and respiratory function].

[Article in French]

Pin I(1), Gignoux C, Delmas-Vassort D, Levy P, Lachet B, Hostein J, Fournet J,
Brambilla C, Paramelle B.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, C.H.R.G., Grenoble.

The aim of the study was: 1) to define the frequency of gastroesophageal reflux
(GER) in asthmatics; 2) to study a possible relationship between episodes of GER 
and changes in airflow obstruction while maintaining as far as possible
physiological conditions. Nineteen consecutive patients (aged 40.3 +/- 19 years) 
presenting with severe asthma requiring continuous treatment, were studied in a
stable period. All treatments were stopped for 12 hours before the examination,
except corticosteroids and sustained theophylline. Esophageal pH was measured
continuously one hour before and three hours after a standardized meal.
Respiratory function was measured every 30 minutes using a miniaturized
spirometer which enabled the measurement of forced vital capacity (FVC), forced
expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), and FEV1-VC ratio: 1) the frequency of
pathological GER was defined by a Kaye's score greater than 90 and was 32%; 2)
there was no significant correlation between the individual changes in FEV1 and
different variables for the pH measured in the 30 mn before the measurement of
bronchial obstruction (number of GER episodes, duration of GER, duration of the
last GER episode, time of the last GER); 3) we have found no significant
difference between the variation of FEV1 above or below 10% of the best FEV1 of
each patient in relation to the quality (intensity, duration, delay) of GER
episodes recorded 10 minutes before the spirometry.IN CONCLUSION: in severe
asthmatics these results: 1) confirm the high frequency of pathological GER; 2)
do not allow the establishment of a direct causal relationship between GER
episodes and occurrence of a bronchial obstruction.

PMID: 2740591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Rev Mal Respir. 1989;6(2):127-32.

[Beta blocking drugs in chronic obstructive bronchopneumopathies].

[Article in French]

Durandet P(1), Gosse P, Vergeret J, Taytard A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital du Haut-Lévêque, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire
de Bordeaux, Pessac.

The respiratory tolerance can limit the use of beta-blocker medication (beta-)
currently indicated in numerous clinical situations, both cardiovascular and also
neurological and ophthalmological. Blockade of beta adrenergic receptors is
without risk in subjects free of bronchial pathology, but may destabilize
underlying airflow obstruction; either presenting as or sustaining bronchospasm
in an asthmatic, and increasing bronchial obstruction, in patients suffering from
chronic airflow obstruction (BPCO). Now BPCO, and in particular asthma, are
easily associated with diseases for which beta- are indicated. In addition the
notion of cardioselectivity is relative and dose dependent.IN PRACTICE: beta- are
contraindicated in chronic airflow obstruction with bronchial hyper-reactivity;
in other cases, beta- should be used carefully choosing the most cardioselective 
products at the lowest effective dose. Whatever the route of administration (in
particular eye drops), the beta- are reliable to produce the same harmful
effects. There should be strict follow up of treatment and a watch kept for signs
of a worsening or a provocation of respiratory problems; conversely the
occurrence of such symptomatology in a patient with bronchial pathology should
call into question the place of beta-. Finally beta- should be avoided in
allergic subjects and (a fortiori) in specific immunotherapy where there is a
possibility of anaphylactic shock.

PMID: 2567044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Jan;8(1):35-40.

[Calculation of the pulmonary to systemic flow ratio using echo-Doppler in septal
defects--correlation with oximetry].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rufino Nascimento LG, Dehant P, Jimenez M, Dequeker JL, Castela E, Choussat A.

OBJECTIVE: 1. local validation of a protocol of measurement of pulmonary to
systemic flow ratio (QP/QS) by echo-Doppler in children with septal defects; 2.
to assess continuous wave Doppler efficacy mainly in those patients where peak
pulmonary flow velocity was beyond the Nyquist limit of pulsed Doppler.
DESIGN: To correlate QP/QS ratio determined by echo-Doppler with that obtained by
cardiac catheterization (oximetric method) performed within 48 hours, in children
with isolated septal defects.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The QP/QS ratio was evaluated by pulsed and or continuous
wave echo-Doppler in 50 children who were submitted within 48 hours to cardiac
catheterization. All children had an intracardiac shunt (12 atrial septal
defects--ASD; 26 ventricular septal defects--VSD and 12 atrio ventricular septal 
defects--AVDS). Identical measurements were performed in a group of 20 children
without cardiac malformation--control group. To test inter-observer variability, 
all the measurement in 31 patients were repeated by a second observer. Pulmonary 
and aortic flow was calculated as: Q = A x V x ET x CF where, A is the valvular
orifice area (cm2), V the mean flow velocity (cm/sec), ET the ejection time (sec)
and CF the cardiac frequency (cycles/min). The Doppler beam-flow direction angle 
in the pulmonary (P) artery and ascending aorta (Ao) was less than 20 degrees.
Results were correlated with those obtained by catheterization (oximetric
method).
RESULTS: We obtained a fairly good correlation with both pulsed wave Doppler (n =
43; r = 0.88; p less than 0.001; y = 0.84x + 0.40) and continuous wave Doppler (n
= 50; r = 0.91; p less than 0.001; y = 0.86x + 0.35) or with pulsed wave Doppler 
in the P artery and continuous wave Doppler in the Ao (n = 43; r = 0.92; p less
than 0.001; y = 0.86x + 0.27). In the control group, QP/QS ratio was evaluated by
echo-Doppler: pulsed wave Doppler at 1.05 +/- 0.15 (mean +/- DS); continuous wave
Doppler at 1.05 +/- 0.12 and, pulsed wave Doppler in the P artery and continuous 
wave Doppler in the Ao at 1.03 +/- 0.12. There was no significant difference in
all three groups to the normal range of 1.00 (p less than 0.01). Inter-observer
variability was less than 5.5% (p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Pulsed and/or continuous wave echo-Doppler measurements are a
reliable noninvasive method in evaluating QP/QS ratio in children with isolated
septal defects.

PMID: 2631813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Jan;8(1):29-33.

[Clinical methods for evaluating infarct size and its anatomic correlations. A
study conducted with 193 cases. II. Evaluation of infarct size by determining
maximal creatine phosphokinase in serum. Enzimatico-anatomic correlations].

[Article in Portuguese]

Perdigão C, Monteiro J, Andrade A, Ribeiro C.

AIMS: To compare the infarct size calculated by the peak serum CK method with the
anatomic infarct size in a population dying of acute myocardial infarction.
CONCEPT AND PLACE OF THE STUDY: To use the method of peak serum CK in the
assessment of infarct size, calculated by a method developed by the authors, in a
population dying of acute myocardial infarction in a coronary care unit.
METHODS: 193 patients who successively died with acute myocardial infarction
entered the study. After establishing the exclusion criteria the anatomical
infarct size was measured using the method developed by the authors of myocardial
slices after fixation of the heart and by the peak CK method. The two methods
were correlated using linear regression curves.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: A global correlation between the two methods was found
although wide scattered values were found. After dividing the population in
several subgroups, the analysis showed that survival below 48 hours, death in
left ventricular failure, inferior infarcts and reinfarction influenced
negatively this correlation. The anatomical method showed its value for this kind
of evaluation having always in mind its known limitations. The enzyme method
looked less discriminating as peak CK, obtained by 12 h sampling will seldom
reflect the peaks of CK liberation curve. As the study was applied to a
population of patients dying of acute myocardial infarction its results cannot be
applied without caution to a population of survivors. We anticipate that in such 
a population peak CK will have a better correlation with real CK peaks even with 
12 hours sampling and therefore reflecting more accurately infarct size.

PMID: 2631812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Rev Port Cardiol. 1989 Jan;8(1):19-26.

[Evaluation of left ventricular function after myocardial infarct using
equilibrium radionuclide angiography. 1-year follow-up].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ferreira R, Rebelo JR, de Sá ME, Nogueira A, Ferreira TC, Baptista A, Ribeiro C.

OBJECTIVE: To study the evolution of left ventricular (LV) function in the 1st
year after acute myocardial infarction (MI) and to define its prognostic
significance.
DESIGN: Patients recovering from acute MI submitted to evaluation of LV function 
by equilibrium radionuclide angiography (RNA) at the time of discharge, three
months later and at 12 months of follow-up.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 93 patients suffering an acute transmural MI were submitted
to equilibrium RNA. Studies were taken at time of discharge, 3 and 12 months of
follow-up. 19 patients had just the 1st study; in 14 the one year follow-up study
was not performed. The other 60 include the group submitted to 1 year follow-up. 
We used the technic of labelled erytrocites in vivo, with acquisition of the
blood pool gated with EKG in left lateral. PAGE protocol from GE has been used
for processing of images.
RESULTS: Mean global ejection fraction (EF) was 20.6 +/- 8.5% for anterior MI
with LV failure and 40.2 +/- 14.5% for those without failure; in inferior MI it
was 49.9 +/- 12.3% and for combined MI 30.3 +/- 9.5%. The differences between
these values are statistically significant. For the 56 patients in which the 1st 
and 2nd examination were taken we found no significant differences between the
mean values for global EF in the 4 groups previously considered. Conversely, we
couldn't find a significant difference between the mean EF in the 4 groups, when 
we compared the values of early (1st and 2nd examinations) test with those of 12 
months follow-up. 10 patients (10.8%) died in the 1 year follow-up. All had
global EF lower than normal: 33% of deaths in the group with EF less than 20%;
14% in the subset with EF between 20 and 30%; 8% in the sub-group with EF between
30 and 45%. As far as regional motion is concerned we noticed that changes
include both the necrotic and the spared areas. We didn't found significant
differences between the contribution of necrotic and viable myocardium to the
positive or negative variation of global EF, in the 4 groups of infarction
considered. Apical segment seems to have an important contribution for global EF 
changes, both in anterior and inferior MI.
CONCLUSION: In this group of patients with acute MI, followed for 12 months, we
noticed a higher degree of LV dysfunction in the group of anterior MI. The values
of LVEF measured early after the acute attach, usually at hospital discharge are 
stable along the follow-up, unless major cardiac episodes develop. All the deaths
along the one year follow-up had LV dysfunction with EF below 45%. Prognostic
"quod vitam" worsened while EF decreased, with a death rate of 33% in the
sub-group with global EF less than 20%, and 28% considering those with EF below
30%. In relation with regional motion we found that changes may be elicited both 
in the necrotic and spared segments. We emphasize the contribution of the apical 
area to the changes in global EF.

PMID: 2631811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Scand J Rehabil Med. 1989;21(3):147-50.

Effect of electro-motor stimulation on the power production of a maximally
stretched muscle.

Tachino K(1), Susaki T, Yamazaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Physical Therapy, School of Health Sciences, University of Kanazawa, 
Japan.

The effect of electro-motor stimulation (EMS) upon the increase in power
production of the tibialis anterior muscle (TA) of healthy individuals in both
the maximally stretched (ST group) and shortened (SH group) positions was
investigated. The effect of cross-education upon the contralateral muscle was
also examined. EMS with a frequency of 50 hertz, a duration of 0.2 miliseconds,
and a rectangular wave was applied for ten seconds with a ten-second interval and
repeated ten times per day for six weeks. The ST group gained significantly 9.4%,
15.5%, and 16.4% after two, four, and six weeks of stimulation, respectively,
while the SH group also showed a significant gain of 5.1%, 8.3%, and 3.0%. When
comparing the two groups at the end of the six-week period the ST group's gain
was significantly greater. The increase of power production of the unstimulated
TA was 5.5%, 8.0%, and 4.3% in the ST group, which was significant at the end of 
the second and fourth week of stimulation. The SH group, however, registered a
non-significant increase of -2.7%, 1.8%, and -1.5%. Comparison between the two
groups showed a significant increase in the power production of the unstimulated 
TA in the ST group commencing the second week.CONCLUSION: EMS of the TA in the
maximally stretched position is a more effective way to gain strength.

PMID: 2799312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Shoni Shikagaku Zasshi. 1989;27(1):30-40.

[Clinical study of ectopic eruption of permanent incisors and first molars].

[Article in Japanese]

Kumagai E, Sai S, Nozaka K, Yamada S, Amari E.

Using the X-ray films, plastic models and pathological photograph of 4824
patients seen at the Department of Pedodontics of Iwate Medical University, the
patterns of ectopic eruptions of permanent incisors and first molars (restricted 
to these teeth in this study) were classified into 4 groups (I-IV) to investigate
the conditions of its incidence, size of the teeth and dental arch, and
conditions at the stage of the mixed and permanent dentitions.RESULTS: 1. The
total frequency of ectopic eruptions was 5.6%. No difference based on sex was
found. 2. By classification, ectopic eruptions of the upper and lower permanent
central incisors (Group I) amounted to more than half of the total frequency. The
incidence of ectopic eruptions of the upper and lower permanent first molars
(Group III) was very low and amounted to only 4.6% of the total frequency. 3. In 
Groups I and III, the incidence was higher in the maxilla than in the mandible.
4. Based on sex, the incidence was higher in boys in Group III and in girls in
group II. 5. Ectopia of the permanent central incisors was frequently bilateral
and those of the lower permanent lateral incisors and upper permanent first
molars were frequently unilateral. 6. The mesiodistal width of the ectopically
erupted permanent teeth tended to be somewhat enlarged, but showed no significant
differences from Ono's mean value. 7. In ectopic eruptions at the area of the
incisors, the C-C distance was narrowed with an increase in the ectopically
erupted permanent teeth. 8. In patients in whom the permanent dentition was
formed without occlusal guidance, the basal arch length and dental arch length
were large and basal arch width and dental arch width were small. 9. In cases
which were followed from the deciduous dentitions to permanent dentitions, the
anterior tooth area at the stage of the mixed dentition was frequently crowded.
Occlusal guidance was carried out in more than half of these cases.

PMID: 2602712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Shoni Shikagaku Zasshi. 1989;27(3):595-606.

[Development of chewing center at transition period from sucking to chewing].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikuno S.

The purpose of this study was to identify and to characterize the peripheral
movement evoked by electrical stimulation given to the masticatory area of the
cerebral cortex (Control group), and to clarify the development of the chewing
center by examining the change in the peripheral movement when the tooth germs
have been enucleated (Enucleation group). Puppies were used in the present study 
which were anesthetized with a 25% solution of Urethane (4 ml/kg, i.p.). Their
heads were then, fixed in a stereotaxic apparatus, and the surfaces of the
orbital gyrus was surgically exposed. Electrical stimulation (Frequency: 25
c/sec,DURATION: 2 msec) was given to the masticatory area. All of the tooth germs
of the deciduous teeth were enucleated at 12-14 days of age in the enucleation
group. After the enucleated wound healed, stimulation was similarly performed in 
the control. The results obtained were as follows; In the control group, a
sucking movement was evoked coinciding with the beginning of the eruption of the 
deciduous teeth (19-23 days of age), and it changed into a chewing movement as
eruption proceeded. However, by 14 days of age, neither sucking nor chewing
movements were evoked even when stimulation was applied to the area of the
cerebral cortex. In the enucleation group, the time of the onset of the sucking
movement was considerably delayed until the age of 22-27 days. Also it was
converted into a jaw opening movement which occurred after 28 days of age. The
chewing movement was observed for some days after 41 days of age. The transition 
from sucking to chewing was recognized to undergo a little delay when the
deciduous teeth was enucleated. These results suggest the afferent impulses
provided with the eruption of deciduous teeth presumably play an important role
on the development of the chewing center and consequently on the transition from 
sucking to chewing.

PMID: 2489872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Vasa Suppl. 1989;28:26-30.

Effects of regular physical training in a supervised class and additional
intravenous prostaglandin E1 and naftidrofuryl infusion therapy in patients with 
intermittent claudication--a controlled study.

Diehm C, Kühn A, Strauss R, Hübsch-Müller C, Kübler W.

The aim of this study was to investigate if PGE1 i.v.-therapy after active
physical training further increases the walking distance in PAOD stage IIb
according to Fontaine. 48 outpatients with intermittent claudication underwent a 
standardized active walking training of about 6 months twice weekly. Afterwards
patients were randomly given once daily an i.v. infusion of 60 micrograms PGE1 (3
ampoules prostavasin) or 600 mg naftidrofuryl. The therapy lasted for 3 weeks
with the exception of Saturdays and Sundays. Besides laboratory and doppler
parameters, painfree and maximum walking distance (treadmill, 10% incline, 3.5
km/h) were determined.RESULTS: Under active physical training the patients'
walking distance increased significantly to more than double the baseline levels.
Further significant increase of the painfree walking distance was seen after a 3 
week treatment with PGE1 from 136 to 270 m (99%) as well as with naftidrofuryl
from 117 to 230 m (97%). While this difference was not significant there was a
significant difference in favour to PGE1 after the follow-up period (p less than 
0.01). In the PGE1-group the painfree walking distance showed a further increase 
(from 270m to 306m) whereas it decreased in the naftidrofuryl-group (from 230m to
210m). At the same time under PGE1 the ankle/arm index increased significantly in
comparison to naftidrofuryl (p less than 0.01). Side effects differed
significantly in respect of the frequency and severity. In the PGE1-group in
20.8% of the patients side effects occurred, whereas in 91.6% of the patients in 
the naftidrofuryl-group side effects were observed. In no case therapy had to be 
discontinued because of side effects.

PMID: 2609241  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Z Exp Chir Transplant Kunstliche Organe. 1989;22(6):371-8.

[The morphogenesis of the structural changes of the exocrine pancreas after
ligation of the excretory duct].

[Article in German]

Rohrbeck R(1), Rohrbeck CM, Putzke HP, Jonas L, Reding R.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Wilhelm-Píeck-Universität und dem Bezirkskrankenhaus,
Rostock.

The changes in the exocrine pancreas were investigated after ligature of the
excretory duct in 51 Wistar rats. A qualitative microdetermination of the
epithelial cells was carried out in the originated ductulus-like
structures.CONCLUSIONS: The acinic epithelial cells grow atrophically first of
all and become necrotic in the end. A dedifferentiated acinic cellular atrophy
with metamorphosis to a ductulus-like cell type could not be observed.
Proliferative and preproliferative events occur in the duct epithelial cells.
Cystic ductulus-like structures originated from this. These fill out the former
acinic areas by immature, few differentiated, pluripotent epithelial cells that
look similar to embryonal pancreatic cells.

PMID: 2623914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Z Kardiol. 1989;78 Suppl 2:88-94; discussion 115-7.

[Hemodynamic study of the development of tolerance in intravenous nitrate
therapy].

[Article in German]

Unverdorben M(1), Pfeiffer F, Kunkel B, Bachmann K.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Klinik II, Kardiologie, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

To investigate possible tolerance development under an intravenous treatment with
nitrates, 22 patients with coronary artery disease were randomly assigned to
receive either 4 mg/h of ISDN (n = 12) or placebo (n = 10) and were given
additional 10 mg of ISDN or placebo after 23 h. Pulmonary artery pressures (PAP),
cardiac output, and heart rate were registered before, and 4 h, 22.5 h, and 24 h 
after the beginning of treatment. At baseline both groups were similar with
regard to pulmonary artery diastolic pressure (PADP) at rest and at comparable
work load. Each patient of the placebo group showed identical PAPs at work. ISDN 
led to a 42-59% decrease of PADP at rest and 29-37% decrease at comparable work
load. After 22.5 h a statistically insignificant reduction of ISDN effect was
observed which could be reversed by additional ISDN p.o. A detailed analysis of
the ISDN group showed seven patients with a persistently lowered PADP, (table;
see text) whereas five patients demonstrated a partial diminuation of the ISDN
effect. No patient showed a complete tolerance. In the placebo group blood
pressure did not show any change during the treatment period (143 +/- 21/84 +/-
10 mmHg vs 137 +/- 17/79 +/- 10 mmHg), whereas ISDN infusion resulted in a
continuously lowered blood pressure (150 +/- 22/83 +/- 11 mmHg vs 125 +/- 15/72
+/- 9 mmHg (p less than 0.001). Cardiac output and heart rate were similar under 
ISDN and placebo treatment.CONCLUSION: Continuous infusion of 4 mg of ISDN/h over
24 h and an additional dose of 10 mg of ISDN after 23 h provided a significant
reduction in PADP, blood pressure and rate pressure product over 24 h at rest and
during exercise.

PMID: 2686259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Z Kardiol. 1989;78 Suppl 2:22-5; discussion 64-7.

Clinical tolerance to nitroglycerin is due to impaired biotransformation of
nitroglycerin and biological counterregulation, not to desensitization of
guanylate cyclase.

Mülsch A(1), Busse R, Bassenge E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physiology, University of Freiburg, FRG.

We studied the effect of nitroglycerin (NTG), endothelium-derived relaxing factor
(EDRF), sydnonimine SIN-1, and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on vascular tone,
cyclic GMP content and activity of soluble guanylate cyclase (GC) (in
homogenates) of tolerant (1 h 0.55 mM NTG) and non-tolerant (1 h vehicle)
de-endothelialized rabbit aortae (RA) as well as on cyclic GMP content of
cultured smooth muscle cells (SMC) from RA. Nitrate tolerance significantly
attenuated NTG-induced vasodilation of precontracted (1.0 microM norepinephrine) 
RA, increase in cyclic GMP in RA and SMC, and activation of guanylate cyclase in 
homogenates as compared to controls. In contrast, vasodilation and cyclic GMP
increases to NNP, SIN-1, and EDRF (from cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells)
were not affected in RA and SMC, despite desensitization of guanylate cyclase to 
activation with SNP and SIN-1 in homogenized tolerant RA.CONCLUSION: A
desensitization of soluble guanylate cyclase to activation with NO can be
demonstrated under non-physiological conditions (disrupted cells) in homogenates 
from nitrate tolerant RA. However, in intact cells (in situ or in culture)
soluble guanylate cyclase is not desensitized to EDRF, SIN-1 or SNP. Therefore
reduced generation of NO from NTG because of impaired biotransformation of NTG
must be regarded as the basis of nitrate tolerance.

PMID: 2573982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Z Kardiol. 1989;78 Suppl 2:45-7; discussion 64-7.

Konkurrenz zwischen endothelabhängiger und Nitroglygerin-induzierter koronarer
Vasodilatation [Competition between endothelium-dependent and
nitroglycerin-induced coronary vasodilation].

Rafflenbeul W(1), Bassenge E, Lichtlen P.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Hochschule Hannover.

Intact vascular endothelium can relax the smooth muscle by liberation of EDRF
(endothelium-derived relaxing factor) and thus induce vasodilation. We
investigated to what extent functional integrity of the endothelium modifies the 
dilatory capacity of coronary arteries and which influence nitroglycerin exerts
on endothelium-dependent relaxation mechanism. In 74 coronary segments from eight
patients with coronary artery disease, coronary artery diameters were measured
before (C1) and 90 s after intracoronary infusion of the endothelium-dependent
vasodilator bradykinin (0.1 mM) by means of a computer-assisted contour
assessment system (CAAS). The same segments were then measured before (C2; 10 min
after C1) and 90 s after an intracoronary infusion of the endothelium-independent
vasodilator nitroglycerin (0.29 mM). By dividing diameter increases after
bradykinin in group I less than 0.15 mm, n = 42 segments and group II: greater
than 0.45 mm, n = 32 segments, the following diameters were obtained (mean +/-
SD): (table; see text)CONCLUSION: In atherosclerotic coronary segments with
impaired endothelium and consecutively reduced endothelium-dependent dilation the
vasodilatory capacity of nitroglycerin is enhanced. Due to a competitive effect
on the final common biochemical pathway, i.e., stimulation of soluble guanylate
cyclase and elevation of intracellular levels of cyclic guanosylmonophosphate
(cGMP) nitrovasodilators can facilitate insufficient endogenous relaxation of
vascular smooth muscle.

PMID: 2511692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Z Psychol Z Angew Psychol. 1989;197(2):171-85.

[Processing of a speech signal and thereby necessary attention: a contribution to
dual performance].

[Article in German]

Lazarus-Mainka G, Arnold M, Tkocz N.

Speech intelligibility during the performance of a second task (sorting of small 
plates), and the frequency of sorting in dependence of the phases of speech
processing (input-processing-output) are investigated. A fixed speech level (65
dB) is combined with 5 different noise levels (55, 60, 65, 70, 75 dB). The speech
material and the sorting task vary in difficulty (words, sentences, small texts; 
simple and complicated sorting). By rating 3 questions the subjective quality of 
both tasks is inquired.MAIN RESULTS: speech intelligibility and frequency of
sorting vary in dependence of noise level; frequency of sorting varies in
dependence of the phases of speech processing and speech material; subjective
ratings are corresponding with the performance of both tasks.

PMID: 2572093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1989;111(14):952-9.

[Evaluation of the subrenal capsule assay (SRCA) in breast cancer using
immunocompetent (NIC) mice].

[Article in German]

Gerber B(1), Richter D, Rohde E, Wilken H, Rudolf K, Kasch R.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Gynäkologie und Geburtshilfe, Bereichs Medizin der
Wilhelm-Pieck-Universität Rostock.

To assess the value of subrenal capsule assay (SRCA) for predictive
chemo-sensitivity testing in breast cancer 24 primary tumours were examined in
normal immunocompetent (NIC; AB- and B6D2-F1-) mice. In 6 cancers the effect of
0.25 mg Prednisolone mous X day (applicated with drinking water) was compared to 
the control group. Independent of the mice-species a significant increase of the 
grafts size occurred in 14 of 20 evaluable cancers (p less than 0.05).
Histologically the increase of tumour size was caused by infiltrated host cells, 
only in 22 of 107 (20.6%) grafts vitale tumour cells were detectable. After
immunosuppression the increase of the grafts size was significant lower, than in 
the no treated control group (p less than 0.05). In groups treated with
Prednisolone only a thin inflammatory host cell infiltration was observed, but
vital tumour cells were only seen in 3 of 29 (10.3%) grafts.CONCLUSION: Using
normal immunocompetent mice subrenal capsule assay is not suited for predicting
responsiveness of breast cancers to cytostatic drugs.

PMID: 2800779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1989;111(9):581-6.

Morphology of rabbit ovaries after sterilization by uterus horn coagulation or
section.

Riedel HH(1), Lehmann-Willenbrock E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Aachen.

Tubal sterilization of women may lead to menstrual cycle changes and climacteric 
complaints. Interference with ovarian metabolism, caused by impaired vascular
and/or neural supply of the ovaries is held responsible for this. To obtain a
histopathologic equivalent of these ovarian alterations in an animal model, we
coagulated resp. cut the uterus horns of 316 white New Zealand rabbits by
pelviscopy resp. by laparatomy. The pelviscopic method used was endocoagulation
acc. to Semm in 80 cases, monopolar high frequency coagulation in 94 cases, and
bipolar high frequency coagulation in 109 cases. The uterus horns of 23 rabbits
were cut with a CO2-laser by laparotomy, a control group consisted of 10 animals.
After 1, 2, 4, 8 or 12 weeks, the rabbits' ovaries were exstirpated by laparotomy
and examined morphologically.RESULTS: The increase of the average ovary diameter 
as well as the decrease of tertiary follicle numbers per ovary were significant
by analysis of variance; however, a dependence on the operation method used could
not be detected.

PMID: 2741596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 15;109(12):953-8.

The hemodynamic effects of treatment with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated 
killer cells.

Gaynor ER(1), Vitek L, Sticklin L, Creekmore SP, Ferraro ME, Thomas JX Jr, Fisher
SG, Fisher RI.

Author information: 
(1)Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, Illinois.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the hemodynamic alterations occurring during
therapy with the maximally tolerated doses of interleukin-2 and
lymphokine-activated killer cells.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: Referal-based inpatient oncology service at a university medical center.
PATIENTS: A sequential sample of 13 patients with metastatic colon carcinoma,
malignant melanoma, or hypernephroma who were receiving treatment with
interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells in the maximally tolerated
doses.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Pretreatment variables of mean arterial pressure, 
systemic vascular resistance, heart rate, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, and
cardiac index were compared with the same variables measured either immediately
before the eighth dose of interleukin-2 or immediately before the initiation of
pressor support with dopamine hydrochloride. When these values were compared with
the pretreatment values, patients showed a significant decrease in mean arterial 
pressure (92 mm Hg compared with 75 mm Hg; P less than 0.0001), and systemic
vascular resistance (15.1 compared with 8.5 mm Hg/L . min; P less than 0.0001),
but an increase in heart rate (73 compared with 110 beats/min; P less than
0.0001) and cardiac index (3.1 compared with 4.7 L/min . m2 body surface area; P 
less than 0.0001). No significant change was noted in pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure. Low systemic vascular resistance persisted throughout interleukin-2
therapy. Although blood pressure normalized in 24 hours, the systemic vascular
resistance remained below baseline levels 6 days after interluekin therapy had
been stopped.
INTERVENTIONS: Blood pressure was successfully supported at greater than 90 mm Hg
with dopamine hydrochloride or phenylephrine hydrochloride, or both.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with high doses of interleukin-2 induces hemodynamic changes
consistent with a high-output and low-resistance state similar to changes noted
during the early phase of septic shock.

PMID: 3264128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 15;109(12):959-62.

Mild asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism is not a risk factor for vertebral 
fractures.

Wilson RJ(1), Rao S, Ellis B, Kleerekoper M, Parfitt AM.

Author information: 
(1)Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of vertebral fractures in patients
with mild asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism and to ascertain whether this 
prevalence is increased in comparison with the rate in a retrospective control
group previously studied at the same institution or with current estimates of the
risk for vertebral fractures in subjects of similar age.
DESIGN: Prospectively collected data were retrospectively analyzed and compared
with data from a historical control group at the same institution and with
published data.
SETTING: The outpatient department of a bone and mineral metabolism clinic.
PATIENTS: A consecutive series of patients with mild asymptomatic primary
hyperparathyroidism diagnosed between 1 January 1976 and 31 December 1985.
Criteria for inclusion in the study were the absence of symptoms due to
hyperparathyroidism, no current kidney stone disease, no radiographic evidence of
osteitis fibrosa, a serum calcium level of less than 3.00 mmol/L, a serum
creatinine level of less than 133 mumol/L, and a forearm bone density value not
more than 2.5 standard deviations below the age-, sex-, and race-adjusted normal 
value.
INTERVENTIONS: A conservative nonintervention study.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The prevalence of vertebral fractures in 174
patients (mean age, 62 years) with mild asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism 
was 1.7%; in a subset of white women, the prevalence was 2.8%. These rates were
not higher than those expected, by comparison with the rate in a retrospective
control group or with the risk for vertebral fractures in subjects of similar
age, and may even be lower.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk for vertebral fractures is not increased in patients with
mild asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism and is not a reason to recommend
surgical intervention in asymptomatic patients. The increased rates of vertebral 
fractures that occurred in other series are probably due to the use of
inappropriate controls and the influence of referral or selection bias, the
inclusion of patients with severer disease, and the effect of geographic
differences in vitamin D nutrition on the expression of disease. Possible
differences between lateral spine and lateral chest radiographs for determining
vertebral body shape need further study.

PMID: 3195878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 15;109(12):939-45.

The Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Pathologic Classification Project. Long-term follow-up
of 1153 patients with non-Hodgkin lymphomas.

Simon R(1), Durrleman S, Hoppe RT, Bonadonna G, Bloomfield CD, Rudders RA, Cheson
BD, Berard CW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To document the long-term prognosis of patients with non-Hodgkin
lymphoma treated between 1971 and 1975 and to determine how the prognosis varies 
by histologic subtype and stage.
SETTING: Three cancer referral centers in the United States and one center in
Italy.
PATIENTS: A consecutive sample of 1153 previously untreated patients with
non-Hodgkin lymphoma. At the time of analysis, 71% of the patients had died and
the median follow-up for patients still alive was 11.2 years.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The 10-year survival proportions were 45% (CI, 40%
to 50%); 26% (CI, 22% to 30%); and 23% (CI, 18% to 30%) for patients with low-,
intermediate-, and high-grade lymphomas, respectively. Patients with
intermediate- and high-grade lymphomas were curable, but this was not apparent
for patients with advanced stage low-grade lymphomas. For the low-grade
follicular small cleaved and follicular mixed lymphomas, the Ann Arbor staging
system distinguished the prognosis of patients with stage I disease from those
with more extensive involvement. For the diffuse large cell and immunoblastic
lymphomas, the Ann Arbor staging system distinguished long-term prognosis for
patients with stage I disease from patients with stage II disease and those with 
more disseminated involvement.
CONCLUSIONS: The probability of long-term survival for unselected patients with
non-Hodgkin lymphoma can be substantial. Long-term prognosis depends on the
histologic subtype of the tumor and the extent of dissemination. The Working
Formulation for non-Hodgkin lymphomas is a simple and useful nomenclature for
selecting treatment and reporting results. The Ann Arbor staging system is a
useful but imperfect prognostic indicator.

PMID: 3057985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 15;109(12):970-80.

Coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.

Topol EJ.

Author information: 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

PURPOSE: To critically review the role of coronary angioplasty for acute
myocardial infarction.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies published from January 1982 to June 1988 were
identified through a search of the English-language literature using MEDLINE and 
thorough extensive hand searching of bibliographies of identified articles.
STUDY SELECTION: All consecutive patient series and randomized trials of coronary
angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.
DATA EXTRACTION: Demographic characteristics, technical results, clinical
outcomes, and left ventricular function results were collated.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Three randomized trials have compared immediate and
deferred coronary angioplasty after intravenous tissue plasminogen activator.
Immediate angioplasty was associated with increased mortality, increased need for
emergency bypass surgery, higher transfusion requirement, and no benefit in terms
of left ventricular functional recovery.
CONCLUSIONS: The role of coronary angioplasty for myocardial infarction has thus 
far been established as adjunctive, in a delayed time frame after thrombolytic
therapy. Coronary angioplasty has not been shown to reduce in-hospital mortality 
or improve resting left ventricular function. A deferred strategy has improved
exercise left ventricular performance, and several follow-up studies suggest a
favorable long-term prognosis.

PMID: 2973762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Tijdschr Diergeneeskd. 1988 Dec 15;113(24):1345-55.

[Atrophic rhinitis: assessment of the longitudinal section of the head of pigs in
the slaughter line for the determination of incidence and extent of concha
atrophy].

[Article in Dutch]

Visser IJ(1), van den Ingh TS, de Kruijf JM, Tielen MJ, Urlings HA, Gruys E.

Author information: 
(1)Faculteit Diergeneeskunde, vakgroep Pathologie, Utrecht.

Atrophic rhinitis (AR) is a disease which causes economic loss to the pig
breeding industry in the Netherlands. Prospective studies were done to detect AR 
at the slaughter line. Longitudinal sections of nasal cavities, made and
inspected at the slaughter line, were compared with transverse ones made at a
later stage. By close visual inspection and using a 5 grade-system, atrophy of
the turbinate bones, ranging from mild to severe, could be detected. However,
when a speed slaughter line was used, it was hard to differentiate between normal
and mild atrophy of the turbinate bones.CONCLUSION: prevalence and severity of AR
as observed on inspection of the longitudinal nasal cavity section at the
slaughter line could be valuable in integrated surveillance of the animal and
meat production chain.

PMID: 3212760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. BMJ. 1988 Dec 10;297(6662):1506-10.

Dose response relation to oral theophylline in severe chronic obstructive airways
disease.

Chrystyn H(1), Mulley BA, Peake MD.

Author information: 
(1)Chest Unit, Pontefract General Infirmary, West Yorkshire.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate measurement of the trapped gas volume as a measure of
respiratory function in patients with chronic obstructive airways disease and
their response to treatment with theophylline.
DESIGN: Patients able to produce consistent results on testing of respiratory
function spent two weeks having dosage of theophylline adjusted to give
individual pharmacokinetic data. This was followed by random assignment to four
consecutive two month treatment periods--placebo and low, medium, and high dose, 
as assessed by serum concentrations of theophylline. Respiratory function and
exercise performance was assessed at the end of each two month period.
SETTING: Chest unit in district hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty eight patients with chronic bronchitis and moderate to severe
chronic obstruction to airflow were recruited; 33 aged 53-73 years completed the 
study.
INTERVENTIONS: Dosage of oral theophylline increased during two week optimisation
period to 800 mg daily unless toxicity was predicted, when 400 mg was given.
Targets for the steady state serum theophylline concentrations were 5-10 mg/l in 
the low dose period, 10-15 mg/l in the medium dose, and 15-20 mg/l in the high
dose period.
ENDPOINTS: Respiratory function as measured by forced expiratory volume in one
second, forced vital capacity, peak expiratory flow rate, slow vital capacity,
and static lung volumes using helium dilution and body plethysmography from which
trapped gas volume was derived. Exercise performance assessed by six minute
walking test and diary cards using visual analogue scale.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The forced expiratory volume in one second, forced
vital capacity, and peak expiratory flow rate changed only slightly (about 13%)
over the range of doses. There was a linear dose dependent fall of trapped gas
volume from 1.84 l (SE 0.157) to 1.42 l (0.152), 1.05 l (0.128), and 0.67 l
(0.102) during the placebo and low, medium, and high dose treatment periods. Mean
walking distance increased by up to 55.6 m (20%). There was a modest improvement 
in dyspnoea as the dose of theophylline was increased. Side effects were mostly
minor but they became more frequent as the dose was increased.
CONCLUSION: The fall in trapped gas volume may reflect an improvement in
peripheral ventilation (associated with treatment with theophylline) which is
less apparent in the more common tests of lung function used in patients with
chronic obstructive airways disease.

PMCID: PMC1835250
PMID: 3147048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1988 Dec;119(4):561-6.

Development of resistance to a long-acting somatostatin analogue during treatment
of two patients with metastatic endocrine pancreatic tumours.

Lamberts SW(1), Pieters GF, Metselaar HJ, Ong GL, Tan HS, Reubi JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (III), University Hospital Dijkzigt, Erasmus University
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Two patients with metastatic endocrine pancreatic tumours initially responded
well to therapy with the long-acting somatostatin analogue SMS 201-995. In the
first patient with an insulinoma both the number of hypoglycemic attacks and the 
increased insulin levels decreased initially, but returned to pretreatment
intensity and concentrations within 9 days after the start of therapy with
200-300 micrograms SMS 201-995 daily. After a short interruption, no effect was
observed of re-institution of therapy at a dose of 400 micrograms SMS 201-995
daily. In the other patient with a metastatic vipoma both diarrhea, hypokalemia
and plasma VIP levels reacted initially well to SMS 201-995 treatment with 300
micrograms per day, but resistance to therapy developed after 2 weeks. An
increase in the dose of the analogue to maximally 600 micrograms/day was followed
by a transient improvement, but finally both the volume of diarrhea and the
levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were higher than those before the
start of therapy.CONCLUSIONS: Development of resistance to SMS 201-995 both with 
regard to the clinical effect and to the inhibitory effect on tumour hormone
secretion can be expected in some patients with metastatic endocrine pancreatic
tumours. On the basis of our clinical observations down-regulation of
somatostatin receptors is suggested to be one of the mechanisms of this
development.

PMID: 2849276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):806-10.

Plasma and platelet von Willebrand factor defects in uremia.

Gralnick HR(1), McKeown LP, Williams SB, Shafer BC, Pierce L.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Pathology Department, National Institutes of Health 20892.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Oct;87(4):489-90.

PURPOSE: Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the prolonged bleeding 
times and clinical bleeding in chronic renal failure. Recent evidence has
implicated an abnormality in the structure or function of the von Willebrand
factor or in its interaction with uremic platelets. We investigated this factor
in 11 patients with chronic renal failure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Blood samples for cell counts, chemistries, and coagulation
studies were obtained from 11 patients with chronic renal failure and prolonged
bleeding times. Concentrations of von Willebrand factor antigen and ristocetin
cofactor activity were determined in plasma and platelets. Multimeric analysis of
von Willebrand factor in plasma and platelets was conducted. In eight cases, the 
platelets of uremic patients were purified, and the thrombin- and
ristocetin-induced binding of normal von Willebrand factor to these platelets was
examined.
RESULTS: The mean plasma von Willebrand factor antigen and activity (ristocetin
cofactor assay) were elevated 2.77 mu/ml and 1.88 mu/ml, respectively (normal,
1.01 mu/ml and 1.07 mu/ml, respectively). The ratio of activity to antigen in
uremic plasma was 0.67 (normal, 1.05). The mean platelet von Willebrand factor
antigen and activity in the uremic patients was decreased (0.26 and 0.50 mu/10(9)
platelets, respectively) compared with normal patients (0.46 and 0.93 mu/10(9)
platelets, respectively). The oligomeric structure of the uremic plasma von
Willebrand factor lacked the largest multimers. Collection of the blood for
analysis in several protease inhibitors and/or EDTA did not change the multimeric
structure. The von Willebrand factor multimeric structure of platelets from
uremic patients was normal. The ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation of the
uremic platelet-rich plasma was decreased compared with normal plasma samples.
Thrombin and ristocetin-induced binding of normal von Willebrand factor to uremic
patients' platelets was indistinguishable from the binding to normal platelets.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that the uremic platelet-binding sites for von
Willebrand factor are intact and that the defect in ristocetin-induced platelet
aggregation is most likely plasmatic in nature. At least one plasmatic defect was
the observed reduction or absence of the largest plasma von Willebrand factor
multimer in uremic patients. The platelet von Willebrand content was
significantly decreased. These defects may play a role in the prolonged bleeding 
time and the clinical bleeding observed in patients with uremia.

PMID: 3264111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):823-8.

Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome: an immunologic assessment of 15 cases.

Shanahan F(1), Randolph L, King R, Oseas R, Brogan M, Witkop C, Rotter J, Targan 
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California,Los Angeles, 90024.

PURPOSE: The Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder
consisting of the triad of oculocutaneous albinism, a storage pool platelet
defect, and multisystem tissue deposition of ceroid pigment. Although the
underlying metabolic defect has not been identified, secondary or associated
effects on the immune system are suggested by reports of an association with
disorders such as pulmonary fibrosis, granulomatous colitis, lupus, and frequent 
bacterial infections. We evaluated a large group of patients with the
Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome to assess immune competence in this condition.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifteen patients with this syndrome were studied. Control
subjects included healthy volunteers in the same age range as the patients.
Peripheral blood lymphocytes and neutrophils were isolated according to
previously described methods. Immunofluorescent staining, flow cytometry, and
cytotoxicity assays were performed. Determination of lymphocyte transformation,
mixed lymphocyte response, and neutrophil function was made.
RESULTS: Immunoglobulin levels, complement, lymphocyte subsets, natural killer
and lymphokine-activated cytotoxicity, mixed lymphocyte responses, and
lectin-induced transformation were normal in all patients. In addition, there was
no evidence for a lymphocyte proliferative response to a preparation of urinary
ceroid pigment isolated from these patients. Neutrophil function, including
luminol-dependent chemiluminescence, chemotaxis, and aggregation was not
significantly different from control values.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that there is no generalized defect of peripheral
blood lymphocyte or neutrophil function in the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. We
propose that future studies should examine the possibility that associated
disorders arise from a defect within the monocyte-macrophage system, perhaps
secondary to ceroid accumulation.

PMID: 3195606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):817-22.

Pacemaker endless loop tachycardia: termination by simple techniques other than
magnet application.

Barold SS(1), Falkoff MD, Ong LS, Heinle RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Genesee, Rochester, New York 14607.

PURPOSE: Pacemaker endless loop (or reentrant) tachycardia (ELT) is often
terminated by conversion to the asynchronous mode of pacing by simply placing a
magnet over the implanted atrial tracking (DDD or VDD) pacemaker. We investigated
three other simple methods of ELT termination--chest wall stimulation (CWS),
provocation of myopotential oversensing, and chest thumping--that may be useful
when the arrhythmia is unresponsive to magnet application or a magnet is
unavailable.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A modified CWS technique using an external pulse generator 
(pulse width = 40 msec) ordinarily used for transcutaneous cardiac pacing was
tested in 74 patients (40 with unipolar and 34 with bipolar DDD devices). CWS
inhibited the ventricular channel of all DDD pacemakers easily and reliably. CWS 
was then applied during ELT in 20 patients (10 with unipolar and 10 with bipolar 
DDD devices). Provocation of myopotential oversensing by the ventricular channel 
was attempted during ELT in 10 patients with unipolar DDD pacemakers. Chest
thumping was tried during ELT in six patients.
RESULTS: CWS by the modified technique terminated ELT in all patients in whom the
arrhythmia was induced. Myopotential oversensing resulted in successful ELT
termination in six of the 10 patients. ELT was successfully terminated by chest
thumping in four of six patients.
CONCLUSION: These simple techniques provide effective ways of ELT termination
other than magnet application, and may be easily applied by physicians unfamiliar
with the complexities of contemporary DDD pacemakers and their programmers.

PMID: 3195605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):799-805.

Imported rickettsial disease: clinical and epidemiologic features.

McDonald JC(1), MacLean JD, McDade JE.

Author information: 
(1)McGill University Center for Tropical Disease, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: The rickettsioses continue to constitute major health
problems in many parts of the world. With increasing international travel,
recognition of rickettsial diseases by physicians is becoming more important. The
clinical features of four cases of rickettsial disease imported into Canada over 
a five-year period are presented; two patients with tick typhus (Rickettsia
conorii), one patient with scrub typhus (R. tsutsugamushi), and one patient with 
murine typhus (R. typhi). We also present the North American data over the past
10 years from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) (Atlanta).
RESULTS: Since 1983 in the United States, three cases of imported scrub typhus,
all after travel to India, were confirmed, as well as six cases of murine typhus 
after travel to southeast Asia. At the CDC, 67 imported cases of tick typhus have
been confirmed by indirect fluorescent antibody test since 1976; most illnesses
occurred after travel to Africa.
CONCLUSION: Rickettsial diseases are underrecognized by physicians, who should
consider these diagnoses in travelers returning from endemic areas. Since
effective treatment is available, prompt diagnosis and treatment are important.
In all cases, specific serologic confirmation should be obtained.

PMID: 3195604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):793-8.

Pyelonephritis in adult women: inpatient versus outpatient therapy.

Safrin S(1), Siegel D, Black D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and International Health, University of California,
San Francisco.

PURPOSE: The traditional treatment of acute pyelonephritis has been
hospitalization and parenteral administration of antibiotics. No previous study, 
however, has attempted to differentiate between those patients with
pyelonephritis who might be safely managed as outpatients and those in whom
hospitalization is required. We therefore decided to determine whether women with
pyelonephritis can be effectively and safely managed outside the hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The medical records of 94 female outpatients and 100
hospitalized women treated for acute pyelonephritis at San Francisco General
Hospital were reviewed. Utilizing baseline clinical and laboratory data, we
compared outcome in the two groups, and computed the cost-benefit of managing
pyelonephritis on an outpatient basis.
RESULTS: We observed a similarity in the frequency of successful outcomes
(approximately 90 percent in each group) and absence of serious adverse outcome
in any outpatient. Results of urine culture were comparable in inpatients and
outpatients, with Escherichia coli identified as the most common urinary pathogen
in both groups. The frequency of resistance to ampicillin of E. coli and other
urinary pathogens was nearly 30 percent. A cost analysis demonstrated a 7.5-fold 
difference between the inpatient and outpatient groups.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that treatment of pyelonephritis with oral
antibiotics poses a safe and effective method of therapy in immunocompetent women
without underlying illness. The use of ampicillin as a single agent for the
treatment of pyelonephritis, however, is inadvisable. Our study also demonstrates
the potential savings in managing selected patients with pyelonephritis as
outpatients.

PMID: 3195603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):780-4.

Medullary thyroid carcinomas express chromogranin A and a novel neuroendocrine
protein recognized by monoclonal antibody HISL-19.

Deftos LJ(1), Woloszczuk W, Krisch I, Horvat G, Ulrich W, Neuhold N, Braun O,
Reiner A, Srikanta S, Krisch K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Clinical Endocrinology,
University of Vienna Medical School.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: A number of endocrine peptides and proteins are expressed by
medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). The expression of two newly appreciated
neuroendocrine tumor markers, chromogranin A (CgA) and the endocrine antigen
defined by monoclonal antibody HISL-19, was determined in 14 MTCs by
immunohistology to evaluate the clinical utility of these markers in the
diagnosis of MTC. Papillary, follicular, and undifferentiated thyroid tumors were
also evaluated along with an MTC cell line. The same tissues were evaluated with 
antibodies to human calcitonin.
RESULTS: All human calcitonin antibodies were found to react with the MTCs. In
addition, all MTCs were reactive for CgA and the antigen detected by antibody
HISL-19. CgA was generally present in the human calcitonin-containing cells,
whereas the HISL-19 antigen had a more distinctive distribution. The other
thyroid tumors failed to show reactivity with any of the three antibodies.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that, in addition to human calcitonin, MTCs
commonly express CgA and the antigen defined by antibody HISL-19. Our
observations thus add to the repertoire of endocrine substances produced by MTC. 
These studies also demonstrate the clinical value of immunohistologic procedures 
for two novel antigens in distinguishing MTCs from other thyroid tumors.

PMID: 3195602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):771-4.

Methotrexate-associated hepatotoxicity: retrospective analysis of 210 patients
with rheumatoid arthritis.

Shergy WJ(1), Polisson RP, Caldwell DS, Rice JR, Pisetsky DS, Allen NB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710.

PURPOSE: Beginning in the 1980s, methotrexate has been used successfully to treat
rheumatoid arthritis. The magnitude and severity of short- and long-term
methotrexate toxicity, however, have not been adequately investigated. Our study 
was performed to determine the prevalence of hepatotoxicity in patients with
rheumatoid arthritis receiving long-term methotrexate therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective, computer-assisted review of
all Duke University Medical Center patients undergoing liver biopsy for
methotrexate monitoring from January 1979 to January 1988. A total of 538
biopsies were performed in 399 patients, 259 of whom had inflammatory arthritis
(210 with rheumatoid arthritis, 47 with psoriatic arthritis, and two with
seronegative spondyloarthropathy).
RESULTS: No evidence of cirrhosis was defined in the cohort with rheumatoid
arthritis; however, six patients with rheumatoid arthritis had histologic changes
of fibrotic liver disease (prevalence of 2.9 percent in the group with rheumatoid
arthritis) while taking methotrexate. Five of the six patients were obese and
three had glucose intolerance or overt diabetes mellitus, and one person admitted
to alcohol usage. Only one patient with fibrotic liver disease had elevated liver
function test results, and no person showed a declining serum albumin level at
the time of biopsy. Sixty-one patients with rheumatoid arthritis underwent
multiple samplings (44 with two, 13 with three, and four with four biopsies).
Fourteen of these patients showed progressive hepatic disease, whereas four
patients improved.
CONCLUSION: Although the prevalence of methotrexate hepatotoxicity in this large 
cohort of patients with rheumatoid arthritis was low, a small but definite risk
of hepatic fibrosis, not predictable by laboratory screening, still exists.

PMID: 3195601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):761-5.

Impact of medical ethics consultations on physicians: an exploratory study.

Perkins HS(1), Saathoff BS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio,
Texas.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: Despite the increasing availability of medical ethics
consultations, little research addresses the impact of these consultations on
physicians. Therefore, we surveyed physician-requesters and reviewed medical
charts to evaluate the 44 ethics consultations concerning individual patients at 
our university medical center over an 18-month period.
RESULTS: The physicians who requested these consultations said 14 consultations
identified previously unrecognized ethical issues, and 18 changed patient
management considerably. The medical charts showed that the most frequently
overlooked issue was inappropriate family decisions for incompetent adult
patients (five consultations) and the most frequent management changes involved
withholding cardiopulmonary resuscitation (12 consultations).
CONCLUSIONS: Ethics consultations appeared to have considerable impact on
physicians in conducting patient care.

PMID: 3195600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):829-34.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: monoclonal
antibodies plus complement for ex vivo marrow treatment.

Hurd DD(1), LeBien TW, Lasky LC, Haake RJ, Ramsay NK, Kim TH, Levine EG, McGlave 
PB, Bloomfield CD, Peterson BA, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Bone Marrow Transplantation Program, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1990 Jan;88(1):87.

PURPOSE: Patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who fail to achieve a complete
remission or who relapse are rarely cured with conventional therapies. For this
group of patients, intensive therapy and bone marrow rescue may be curative. Our 
goal was to assess the effects of autologous transplantation in patients with
B-cell lymphomas and a poor prognosis. To avoid occult or overt contamination
with lymphoma, monoclonal antibodies BA-1, BA-2, and BA-3 were used for ex vivo
marrow treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventeen patients underwent intensive therapy and
autologous bone marrow transplant using the aforementioned marrow. Ten of the 17 
patients (Group I) had disease that was in complete or partial remission. The
other seven patients either had disease that was not responsive to treatment or
had bone marrow transplant as their initial therapy at relapse.
RESULTS: The ex vivo treatment did not adversely affect engraftment. For those
patients who could be evaluated, the median time to white cell engraftment was 24
days; the median durations of red cell and platelet support were 24 and 29 days, 
respectively. Eleven of the 17 patients had complete remissions at the evaluation
28 days after transplant. Three patients subsequently experienced a relapse,
three died while their disease was in complete remission, and five are alive and 
disease-free 405 to 1,674 days after transplant. Group I patients had an
estimated 40 percent disease-free survival rate at three years compared with 0
percent for Group II patients (p less than 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Our data support autologous bone marrow transplantation as an
important treatment modality for the non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. With the current
preparative regimens available, however, its use should be limited to patients
with disease that is still responding to conventional therapies.

PMID: 3057901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):811-6.

Orally administered bovine colostral anti-cholera toxin antibodies: results of
two clinical trials.

McClead RE Jr(1), Butler T, Rabbani GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Ohio State University 43205.

PURPOSE: Previous reports have suggested that binding of luminal toxin by orally 
administered antitoxin antibodies might be a feasible treatment for cholera. We
therefore conducted two randomized, controlled clinical trials to test the
therapeutic efficacy of orally administered anti-cholera toxin bovine colostral
immunoglobulins in patients with cholera diarrhea.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In Trial I, 45 patients with cholera were randomly assigned
to receive two doses (2 g in 100 ml of water each) of anti-cholera toxin bovine
colostral immunoglobulins, non-immune bovine colostral immunoglobulins, or 100 ml
of water alone. In Trial II, 20 patients were randomly assigned to receive either
2 g of anti-cholera toxin bovine colostral immunoglobulins or non-immune bovine
colostral immunoglobulins or water every two hours for a total of eight doses.
The mean stool volumes in each of two sequential eight-hour periods following
initiation of therapy were not significantly different among study groups in
either trial.
RESULTS: Measurement of immunoglobulin in stools showed that bovine IgG was
detected in 19 of 25 patients given bovine colostral immunoglobulins in both
trials. Cholera toxin neutralizing activity, as assessed with the rabbit ileal
loop assay, was found in the stools of three of seven patients given anti-cholera
toxin bovine colostral immunoglobulins in Trail I, and in all six patients given 
anti-cholera toxin bovine colostral immunoglobulins in Trail II.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that oral anti-cholera toxin bovine colostral
immunoglobulins are not effective in the treatment of patients with active
cholera diarrhea. The prophylactic benefit of oral antitoxin antibody remains to 
be determined.

PMID: 3057900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):775-9.

Sleep apnea and hypothyroidism: mechanisms and management.

Grunstein RR(1), Sullivan CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: There is a high incidence of sleep apnea in patients with untreated
hypothyroidism. Thyroxine treatment is said to significantly reduce the apnea
index and length and sleep apnea symptoms. We undertook a review of 10
consecutive hypothyroid patients with sleep apnea to investigate mechanisms and
management of these two disorders.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Polysomnograms were obtained in 10 consecutive hypothyroid 
patients referred to our sleep disorders unit. All patients were studied while
hypothyroid. Eight patients were restudied later when euthyroid. Lung function,
blood gas values, and awake supraglottic resistance were also assessed in each
patient.
RESULTS: All 10 patients had sleep apnea and were treated with thyroxine. In one 
patient, hypothyroid myopathy involving the upper airway was demonstrated to be a
potential mechanism of sleep apnea in hypothyroidism. Nocturnal angina and
ventricular arrhythmias developed in two patients, despite the use of low
thyroxine doses. Nasal continuous positive airways pressure (CPAP) was begun in
eight patients. Initiation of CPAP prevented further angina or arrythmia in the
patients with these cardiac complications. Six of the eight patients who were
available for follow-up studies had persistent sleep apnea despite an euthyroid
status (apnea index before thyroxine, 51 +/- 6; apnea index after thyroxine, 45
+/- 8), and CPAP therapy was continued in these patients.
CONCLUSION: Our experience suggests that the apnea index does not decrease
significantly in all patients with hypothyroidism and sleep apnea when
euthyroidism is achieved. Treatment of hypothyroidism in the presence of sleep
apnea is potentially hazardous and may lead to cardiovascular complications.
Management by a combination of CPAP and low-dose thyroxine is helpful in this
situation.

PMID: 3057899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):766-70.

Evaluation of patients with back pain of suspected inflammatory nature.

Blackburn WD Jr(1), Alarcon GS, Ball GV.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, University of Alabama,
Birmingham.

PURPOSE: Detection of early inflammatory back disease is often difficult. Certain
clinical characteristics have been reported to increase the likelihood of its
detection in referral patients, but the usefulness of these clinical
characteristics has not been evaluated in an open population. In our study, we
undertook to evaluate the value of the clinical history as a screening test for
inflammatory back disease in a general population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-three male patients with back pain of moderate
duration and with clinical characteristics suggestive of inflammatory back
disease were recruited by advertising and were studied by various means,
including computed tomography (CT), scintigraphy, and radiography.
RESULTS: One patient had radiographic sacroiliitis. Two had positive results for 
the B27 antigen, and another had positive results for the cross-reacting HLA
antigen B7. Eight patients had abnormal scintiscans of the sacroiliac joints.
Twenty-one of 23 patients and 20 of 23 control subjects had abnormalities that
were detected by CT. Repeat plain radiographs of the pelvis done 36 months after 
enrollment into the study did not uncover further evidence of sacroiliitis.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate plain radiographic evidence of sacroiliitis
will often not develop in patients with historical features suggestive of
inflammatory back disease even with long-term evaluation, thus vitiating the
specificity of these historical findings in men with back pain of relatively
brief duration.

PMID: 2973749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Am J Med. 1988 Dec;85(6):785-92.

Hypertension in pseudohypoparathyroidism type I.

Brickman AS(1), Stern N, Sowers JR.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology Division, Sepulveda Veterans Administration Medical Center,
California 91343.

PURPOSE: There is increasing evidence of a central role for the calcium ion in
blood pressure regulation. By studying blood pressure control in disorders of
calcium homeostasis, a better understanding of the role of the calcium ion and
certain calcitrophic hormones in modulating arterial pressure in humans may be
gained. Our goal was to examine levels of blood pressure in a group of patients
with either type Ia or type Ib pseudohypoparathyroidism (PsHP), a disorder
characterized by target organ resistance to parathyroid hormone.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-six patients with type I PsHP were recruited for the 
study (28 with type Ia and 18 with type Ib). Blood pressure was measured and the 
degree of obesity was assessed in all patients. Detailed measurements of hormones
involved in blood pressure regulation were made in nine hypertensive patients
with PsHP.
RESULTS: Elevated arterial pressure was present in 18 of the 46 patients with
PsHP, which comprised 53 percent (18 of 34) of the adult subjects. Prevalence of 
hypertension was similar in PsHP type Ia (nine of 21) and type Ib (nine of 13; p 
not significant) and was not related to coexisting hypothyroidism or degree of
hypocalcemia. However, hypertension in PsHP was strongly linked to severe
obesity. Mean body weights of normotensive and hypertensive patients with PsHP
were 64 +/- 2.8 (SEM) kg (125 +/- 6 percent ideal body weight) and 96 +/- 4.7 kg 
(172 +/- 10 percent ideal body weight), respectively. Compared with obese
hypertensive non-PsHP persons, hypertensive subjects with PsHP had reduced basal 
and posture-stimulated renin activity (basal, 1.68 +/- 0.36 [n = 9] versus 3.97
+/- 0.61 ng/ml/hour [n = 9] [p less than 0.05]; upright posture, 2.11 +/- 0.42
versus 7.13 ng/ml/hour [p less than 0.05]; and lower basal and posture-stimulated
plasma norepinephrine levels (basal, 236 +/- 52 versus 426 +/- 37 pg/ml [p less
than 0.05]; upright posture, 424 +/- 62 versus 707 +/- 64 pg/ml [p less than
0.05]).
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that hypertension is common in PsHP types Ia and Ib.
This newly identified form of endocrine hypertension is strongly linked to
excessive body weight but is associated with alterations in the renin-aldosterone
and sympathetic nervous systems that are distinct from those encountered in
obesity-related hypertension in the general population. The pathophysiologic
basis for hypertension in these two distinctly different forms of PsHP remains to
be determined.

PMID: 2848415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):905-12.

Wide QRS complex tachycardia. Reappraisal of a common clinical problem.

Akhtar M(1), Shenasa M, Jazayeri M, Caceres J, Tchou PJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Despite available criteria, diagnosis of the mechanisms
of wide complex tachycardia is often incorrect. We aimed in this study to
identify reasons for misdiagnoses and the value and limitations of clinical and
surface electrocardiographic criteria.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: The analyzed data of 150 consecutive patients with wide QRS 
tachycardia from this study and a literature search of key papers in English
since 1960 on clinical and surface electrocardiographic criteria form the basis
of this report. The final correct diagnosis was made with intracardiac
electrograms.
DATA EXTRACTION AND ANALYSIS: Among the 150 patients, 122 had ventricular
tachycardia, 21 had supraventricular tachycardia with aberrant conduction, and 7 
had accessory pathway conduction. Only 39 of 122 patients with ventricular
tachycardia were correctly diagnosed initially. In others, the diagnoses were
supraventricular tachycardia with aberrant conduction (43 of 122) or simply a
wide QRS tachycardia (40 of 122). Misdiagnosis in patients with aberrant or
accessory pathway conduction was also common. Standard electrocardiographic
criteria for ventricular tachycardia had unacceptable sensitivity, poor
specificity, or both. Collectively such criteria allowed a correct diagnosis of
ventricular tachycardia in 92% of cases. Diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia was
also suggested by its association with structural heart disease. Criteria
suggestive of ventricular tachycardia included atrioventricular dissociation,
positive QRS concordance, axis less than -90 deg to +/- 180 deg, combination of
left bundle branch block and right axis, QRS duration of greater than 140 ms with
right bundle branch block and greater than 160 ms with left bundle branch block
and, a different QRS during tachycardia compared to baseline preexisting bundle
branch block.
CONCLUSIONS: Ventricular tachycardia is the commonest underlying mechanism for
wide QRS tachycardia. A correct diagnosis can usually be made from clinical and
surface electrocardiographic criteria.

PMID: 3190044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):880-3.

Small polyps found during fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy in asymptomatic patients.

Achkar E(1), Carey W.

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic, Ohio.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jul 15;111(2):187.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of small polyps in the rectosigmoid 
in an asymptomatic group and the likelihood of finding synchronous neoplastic
polyps proximally at colonoscopy.
DESIGN: Asymptomatic patients with polyps 9 mm or less found at screening
fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy were referred for colonoscopy, at which time all polyps 
were removed.
SETTING: Screening fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy unit.
PATIENTS: Referral from Executive Health Wellness Clinic and large
multispeciality clinic.
RESULTS: From 3923 sigmoidoscopic examinations, 258 asymptomatic subjects (7%)
were identified who had polyps 9 mm or smaller. One hundred and eighty-nine
patients (73%) had colonoscopy. In 179 patients, the target lesion noted at
sigmoidoscopy was identified at colonoscopy. Based on histology of the target
lesion, patients were divided into three groups: Group 1 (72 patients) had only
hyperplastic polyps; Group 2 (69 patients) had at least one neoplastic polyp; and
Group 3 (31 patients) had polyps with normal histology. Seven patients were not
classified. Neoplastic polyps were found proximally in 21 patients in Group 1
(29%; 95% CI, 19 to 39), 23 patients in Group 2 (33%; 95% CI, 22 to 44), and 4
patients in Group 3 (13%; 95% CI, 4 to 30). There was no difference in mean age
between groups. The results were similar when only polyps 5 mm or smaller were
analyzed.
CONCLUSION: Because small polyps of any histologic type in the rectosigmoid
indicate a high risk for having neoplastic polyps proximally, the guidelines of
both the American College of Physicians and the American Society of
Gastrointestinal Endoscopy may need to be revised. Colonoscopy seems justified in
any patient in whom a small polyp is discovered at sigmoidoscopy.

PMID: 3190042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):870-3.

Bone mass is low in relatives of osteoporotic patients.

Evans RA(1), Marel GM, Lancaster EK, Kos S, Evans M, Wong SY.

Author information: 
(1)Concord Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the failure to attain normal bone mass in
young adulthood contributes to the later development of osteoporotic fractures.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
SETTING: Referral-based bone clinic at a large teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of 35 asymptomatic relatives, aged 19 to 59 years, of
patients with osteoporotic fractures, and 24 patients with osteoporotic
fractures.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bone mineral density in the spine was measured by 
quantitative computed tomographic scanning. Bone mineral content in the os calcis
was measured in 19 of the relatives of osteoporotic patients by single-photon
absorptiometry. The values for bone mineral density in the spine were corrected
to age 50 years with the regression equation derived from the normal values in
the controls. The values were lower in relatives of osteoporotic patients than in
controls. In men, the mean values (+/- standard deviation [SD]) for relatives
were 91 +/- 16 mg/cm3, and for controls, 129 +/- 21 mg/cm3 (P less than 0.001).
In women, the mean values for relatives were 96 +/- 17 mg/cm3 and for controls,
126 +/- 19 mg/cm3 (P less than 0.001). In the osteoporotic patients, the
corrected mean value for men was 53 +/- 12 mg/cm3, and for women, 77 +/- 20
mg/cm3. The os calcis values did not correlate with the spine values and were
mostly well within the normal range.
CONCLUSIONS: Mean bone mass is lower in apparently healthy young and middle-aged 
adult relatives of osteoporotic patients than in normal persons with no family
history of osteoporosis. Our findings suggest that the failure to attain an
adequate peak bone mass may play an important role in the later development of
osteoporotic fractures. Relatives of osteoporotic patients should be advised to
have measurements of bone mass taken. This measurement should be taken at the
spine, because peripheral sites do not appear to provide adequate information
about early osteoporosis.

PMID: 3190041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):863-9.

Cyclosporin A in severe, treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis. A randomized 
study.

Yocum DE(1), Klippel JH, Wilder RL, Gerber NL, Austin HA 3rd, Wahl SM, Lesko L,
Minor JR, Preuss HG, Yarboro C, et al.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and toxicity of cyclosporin A in patients
with severe, treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis.
DESIGN: Prospective randomized, double-blind 6-month trial.
PATIENTS: Thirty-one patients who had classic seropositive rheumatoid arthritis
with active synovitis unresponsive to conventional therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to high-dose (10 mg/kg body
weight.d) or low-dose (1 mg/kg.d) cyclosporin A therapy. A reduction in the dose 
was permitted for adverse side effects. After 6 months of therapy, patients who
showed clinically relevant improvement, defined as a 40% or greater reduction in 
their total joint activity score, were given the option to continue receiving the
therapy for an additional 6 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At 6 months, clinically relevant improvement
occurred in 10 of 15 patients (95% CI, 38 to 88) receiving high-dose therapy and 
in 4 of 16 patients (CI, 7 to 52) receiving low-dose therapy (P = 0.02).
Statistically significant improvements in individual measures were shown only in 
the high-dose group. Improvements were noted in the number of tender joints
(-18.8; CI, -24.5 to -13.1) and swollen joints (-12.1; CI, -15.4 to -8.6), as
well as in physician's global scores (-1.5; CI, -2.1 to -0.9) and patient's
global scores (-1.1; CI, -1.9 to -0.5). Improvement in disease activity was
maintained through 12 months in the high-dose group. The clinical responses to
cyclosporin A were most evident in patients with depressed in-vitro proliferative
responses of peripheral blood mononuclear lymphocytes to soluble recall antigens.
Toxicities, such as fatigue, gastrointestinal and neurologic complaints, and
hypertrichosis were frequent but often reversible with a reduction in the dose.
Nephrotoxicity, with a 20% increase in the serum creatinine level, was seen in 27
of 31 patients (CI, 71 to 97).
CONCLUSIONS: Cyclosporin A is an effective therapy for severe,
treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis. Side effects, particularly
nephrotoxicity, are common.

PMID: 3190040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):855-62.

Invasion of the central nervous system by Treponema pallidum: implications for
diagnosis and treatment.

Lukehart SA(1), Hook EW 3rd, Baker-Zander SA, Collier AC, Critchlow CW,
Handsfield HH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Seattle.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence of Treponema pallidum in
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with syphilis, to determine the effect of
concurrent HIV infection on central nervous system involvement by T. pallidum,
and to examine the efficacy of conventional therapy for asymptomatic neurologic
involvement.
PATIENTS: Fifty-eight patients with untreated syphilis who consented to lumbar
puncture, representing approximately 10% of new cases of syphilis during the
study period.
INTERVENTIONS: Lumbar puncture was done on all patients. Rabbit inoculation was
used to test cerebrospinal fluid for viable T. pallidum. Patients with normal
fluid received recommended benzathine penicillin therapy according to the stage
of syphilis; patients with CSF abnormalities were offered 10-day therapy for
neurosyphilis.
RESULTS: Treponema pallidum was isolated from the CSF of 12 (30%) of 40 patients 
(95% CI, 17 to 46) with untreated primary and secondary syphilis; isolation of T.
pallidum was significantly associated (P = 0.008) with the presence of two or
more abnormal laboratory variables (among leukocyte count, protein concentration,
and CSF-Venereal Disease Research Laboratory [VDRL] test). Two (67%) of 3 early
latent (CI, 13 to 100) and 3 (20%) of 15 late latent syphilis patients (CI, 5 to 
47) also had reactive CSF-VDRL tests and elevated cell and protein levels,
although T. pallidum was not isolated. Concurrent infection with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was not associated with isolation of T. pallidum,
increased number of CSF abnormalities, or reactive CSF serologic tests for
syphilis, although CSF pleocytosis was commoner in subjects infected with HIV.
Treatment with conventional benzathine penicillin G (2.4 mIU) failed to cure 3 of
4 patients with secondary syphilis from whom T. pallidum was isolated before
therapy; all 3 patients in whom treatment failed were HIV seropositive when
treated or seroconverted during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Central nervous system invasion by T. pallidum is common in early
syphilis, and is apparently independent of HIV infection. Examination of the CSF 
may be beneficial in patients with early syphilis, and therapy should be guided
by knowledge of central nervous system involvement. Conventional benzathine
penicillin G therapy may have reduced efficacy in patients with early syphilis
who are also infected with HIV.

PMID: 3056164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):874-9.

Nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis without evidence of Pneumocystis carinii in 
asymptomatic patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).

Ognibene FP(1), Masur H, Rogers P, Travis WD, Suffredini AF, Feuerstein I, Gill
VJ, Baird BF, Carrasquillo JA, Parrillo JE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess how often Pneumocystis carinii organisms, P. carinii
pneumonia, or other pulmonary pathologic processes were present in persons
infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) without pulmonary symptoms or
previous history of P. carinii, and with a normal chest roentgenogram.
DESIGN: Serial, prospective assessment of eligible HIV-seropositive patients over
21 months.
PATIENTS: Twenty-four HIV-seropositive patients with either a nonpulmonary
manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (n = 12) or an
absolute CD4 lymphocyte count of 0.200 X 10(9) cells/L or less (n = 12), no
pulmonary symptoms, a normal chest roentgenogram, no history of P. carinii
pneumonia, and no history of treatment with antipneumocystis prophylaxis.
INTERVENTIONS: Pulmonary assessment with arterial blood gases, pulmonary function
tests, gallium-67 citrate scans, and bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage and
transbronchial biopsies.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean alveolar-arterial gradient was 11.1 mm Hg +/-
8.5 and mean diffusion capacity was 73.0% +/- 20.0% of predicted. None of the 24 
patients showed P. carinii or other pathogens on stains of bronchoalveolar lavage
fluid. No patient had histologic evidence of P. carinii pneumonia. Transbronchial
biopsy specimens showed chronic, nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis (11 of 23) 
and no pathologic abnormality (12 of 23). Six patients have developed P. carinii 
pneumonia during 2 to 18 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV-infected patients without pulmonary symptoms did not have
detectable Pneumocystis organisms in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid or
transbronchial biopsy specimens; but 11 of 23 had evidence of chronic,
nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis. Pneumocystis organisms in a pulmonary
specimen from a symptomatic patient probably indicate the cause of the pulmonary 
dysfunction even if only a few are detected.

PMID: 2973275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Biochem J. 1988 Dec 1;256(2):515-20.

Regulation of glucose carrier activity by AlCl3 and phospholipase C in fat-cells.

Obermaier-Kusser B(1), Mühlbacher C, Mushack J, Rattenhuber E, Fehlmann M, Haring
HU.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Diabetes Research, Munich, Federal Republic of Germany.

Recently it was speculated that activation of GTP-binding proteins and of
phospholipase is involved in the transmission of a signal from the
insulin-receptor kinase to effector systems in the cell. To confirm this
hypothesis, we have tested the effect of AlCl3, which has been recently used as
an experimental tool to activate GTP-binding proteins, on glucose transport in
fat-cells. We found that AlCl3 has a partial insulin-like effect on glucose
transport activity (3-O-methylglucose uptake, expressed as % of equilibrium value
per 4 s: basal 9.6 +/- 2, AlCl3 29.6 +/- 4, insulin 74.0 +/- 3). The AlCl3 effect
is totally blocked by pertussis toxin, whereas the insulin effect was not
altered. The effect starts at [AlCl3] greater than 1 fM and reaches its maximum
at 0.1 nM. Addition of phospholipase C (PLC; 50 munits/ml) also stimulated
glucose transport (maximal 53.0 +/- 5%). Both substances acted faster than
insulin itself (maximal values within 1 min for PLC, 2 min for AlCl3 and 5-10 min
for insulin). Using the cytochalasin-B-binding assay to determine the effects of 
AlCl3 and PLC on the distribution of glucose carrier sites in subcellular
fractions, we found that their glucose-transport-stimulating effect does not
occur through an increase in glucose carrier sites in the plasma-membrane
fraction. When PLC was combined with the phorbol ester TPA
(12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate), which increases glucose carrier sites in 
the plasma membrane, an additive effect on glucose transport was found [PLC (50
munits/ml), 53.0 +/- 5%, TPA (1 nM), 17.3 +/- 2%; PLC + TPA, 68.0 +/- 3%].IN
CONCLUSION: (1) the data show that AlCl3, probably through activation of a
pertussis-toxin-inhibitable G protein, and PLC are able to modulate the intrinsic
glucose carrier activity; (2) as pertussis toxin did not modify the effect of
insulin, it seems unlikely that the insulin signal on glucose transport involves 
activation of this specific G protein.

PMCID: PMC1135440
PMID: 3066348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Clin Cardiol. 1988 Dec;11(12):812-6.

A system approach to intravenous thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction in
community hospitals: the influence of paramedics.

Hartmann J(1), McKeever L, Bufalino V, Marek J, Brown A, Goodwin M, Colandrea M, 
Stamato N, Cahill J, Amirparviz F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Good Samaritan Hospital, Downers Grove, Illinois.

During a 3-year period, intravenous streptokinase (IV STK) was given to 110
consecutive patients ages 34-78 in the course of acute myocardial infarction
(AMI) in three community hospitals served by the same paramedic system. 1.5
million units of IV STK was given over 30 minutes. Half of the patients were
brought to the hospital by paramedics. The average time from onset of pain to
administration of IV STK was 107 minutes in the paramedic group and 182 minutes
for the others. Of 110 patients, 98 (89%) showed clinical evidence of reperfusion
and 94 of 106 patients (89%) showed angiographic reperfusion. Angiography was
performed from 1 to 10 days post-AMI. Mean time to angiography was 6 days for the
first 58 patients and 2 days for the last 52 patients. In-hospital mortality was 
2 of 110 patients and there was 1 late death at 8 months for an overall 3-year
mortality 2.7%. Of 86 patients, 83 (96%) working before their infarct are working
now. Of 107 survivors, 96 (90%) are Functional Class I.CONCLUSIONS: (1) IV STK is
safely administered in a high percentage of AMI patients. (2) IV STK is safely
administered in community hospitals. (3) Paramedics act as an early warning
system and allow for earlier treatment than patients presenting without paramedic
involvement. (4) Successful coronary reperfusion with IV STK results in low
mortality rates and minimizes functional disability. (5) A system-wide approach
to reducing time to treatment in AMI may be the most influential factor in
affecting morbidity and mortality.

PMID: 3233811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1988 Dec;15(12):3203-13.

[The role of adjuvant endocrine therapy in the management of operable breast
cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Miura S(1), Yoshida M, Murai H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Aichi Cancer Center Hospital.

Since June, 1982, a chemoendocrine adjuvant clinical trial has been conducted at 
the Aichi Cancer Center Hospital. Women with operable breast cancer were
stratified on the basis of the number of positive axillary nodes. Node negative
patients received tamoxifen (TAM) for 6 months (Trial I), patients with 1-7
positive nodes received either cyclophosphamide (CPA) for 4 weeks and TAM for one
year (Trial II), and patients with 8 or more positive nodes received either CPA
for 8 weeks and TAM for 3 years (Trial III). Numbers of evaluable cases are 449
for Trial I, 228 for Trial II and 84 for Trial III. This is an interim report,
and the median follow-up time is 3 years and 5 months. This is a prospective
non-randomized trial, and control groups (observation group and chemotherapy
group) are historical.RESULTS: 1. Premenopausal patients in Trial I yielded
intermediate outcome between those of observation and chemotherapy groups. Thus, 
for this subgroup, adjuvant chemotherapy can be considered as a standard, and
addition of TAM is recommended. 2. The benefit of TAM is apparent for
postmenopausal patients in Trial I. 3. TAM is effective for both pre- and
postmenopausal patients in Trial II. Addition of more aggressive chemotherapy
should be considered. 4. Premenopausal patients in Trial III had a better
disease-free survival compared with those of control groups. More effective
combined chemotherapy may yield longer overall survival. 5. Postmenopausal
patients in Trial III had a better disease-free and overall survival rate.
Adjuvant TAM and combined chemotherapy can be considered as standard care for
this subgroup.

PMID: 3058042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Genet Hum. 1988 Dec;36(5):469-73.

[A case of terminal renal insufficiency revealing a "charge" association in an
adult].

[Article in French]

Renoult E(1), Sirbat D, Kessler M.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie, C.H.R.U. de Nancy, Vandoeuvre.

A CASE REPORT: Different abnormalities suggesting a "Charge" association were
recognized in a 23-year-old man, as an end-stage renal disease was discovered.
Though its undetermined cause(s), this association needs to be evoked in order to
detect and to manage occult visceral anomalies and to evaluate for a familial
form.

PMID: 3216193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Pediatr. 1988 Dec;113(6):991-5.

Development after exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls and dichlorodiphenyl
dichloroethene transplacentally and through human milk.

Gladen BC(1), Rogan WJ, Hardy P, Thullen J, Tingelstad J, Tully M.

Author information: 
(1)Statistics and Biomathematics Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health 
Sciences, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or
dichlorodiphenyl dichloroethene (DDE), either transplacentally or through breast 
feeding, affected scores on the Bayley Scales of Infant Development at 6 or 12
months of age.
DESIGN: Cohort followed from birth to 1 year of age.
SETTING: General community.
PARTICIPANTS: Volunteer sample of 858 infants, of whom 802 had Bayley scores
available at either 6 months or 12 months or both.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bayley scales and chemical measurements were done 
independently. Higher transplacental exposure to PCBs was associated with lower
psychomotor scores at both 6 and 12 months of age; the difference between the
mean scores in the lowest and highest PCB groups was 7 points at 6 months and 8
points at 12 months. Higher transplacental exposure to DDE was associated with
higher mental scores at 6 months of age (the difference between the mean scores
in the lowest and highest DDE groups was 6 points), but no relationship was seen 
at 12 months. Exposure to either chemical through breast feeding was apparently
unrelated to Bayley scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Transplacental exposure to PCBs was associated with lower
psychomotor scores. No deleterious effects were associated with breast feeding.

PMID: 3142988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Lab Invest. 1988 Dec;59(6):798-808.

Precipitable tissue proteins can cause experimental acute renal failure.

Zager RA.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle.

A previous investigation demonstrated that intravenous infusion of a saline-liver
extract into rats causes acute renal failure (ARF), manifested by severe
azotemia, extensive cast formation, and patchy tubular necrosis. The purpose of
the present study was to explore its pathogenesis. Histologic assessments of rat 
kidneys made 1.5 hours after liver extract infusion demonstrated eosinophilic
material within glomerular capillaries, Bowman's space, and proximal tubular
lumina, distal nephron cast formation, and tubular dilation without evidence of
tubular necrosis. Renal blood flow at this time was normal but the rats were
anuric. Assessments made 24 hours after liver extract infusion demonstrated
persisting ARF (blood urea nitrogen, 132 +/- 8; creatinine, 2.54 +/- 0.19 mg/dl),
profound cast deposition almost exclusively in the inner medulla/papilla, and the
appearance of patchy proximal tubular necrosis. Sephacryl S200 fractionation and 
10% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of liver extract showed high and low
molecular weight proteins (less than 30,000). Proteins in both regions
demonstrated prominent acid precipitability (pH 4.5) and autoaggregation (at 37
degrees C). Trace amounts of spontaneously precipitated protein recovered from
urine during liver extract infusion demonstrated a predominance of low molecular 
weight proteins by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Infusing rats with
filterable low molecular weight proteins (cytochrome c, ribonuclease, myoglobin) 
without autoaggregation/acid precipitation characteristics or liver extract made 
devoid of precipitable proteins failed to induce ARF. However, infusing a kidney 
extract containing acid precipitating/autoaggregating proteins caused inner
medullary/papillary cast formation and ARF.CONCLUSION: normal parenchymal tissues
contain proteins which can undergo glomerular filtration and which can
spontaneously aggregate under conditions which exist in the distal nephron. If
released into the circulation, or if shed from tubular cells into lumina after
nephrotoxic or ischemic renal injury, they could help to induce intratubular
obstruction and ARF.

PMID: 3199795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Respir Care. 1988 Dec;33(12):1108-13.

An analysis of the scholarly activities of respiratory care faculty in southern
academic health centers.

Holcomb JD, Thomson WA, Bartel RE.

Little is known about the scholarly production of faculty members who teach in
respiratory care programs.METHOD: We studied the scholarly activities of
respiratory care faculty members in southern academic health centers via a mailed
survey.
RESULTS: An analysis of the responses (n = 33, 86.8%) revealed: (1) The
respondents' principal scholarly activity was the reporting of research findings 
in refereed journals, with a productivity index (number of articles/years on
faculty) of 0.25, or one published article for every 4 years of employment in
higher education, which was significantly less than that of other allied health
faculty (productivity index 0.69, P less than 0.05). (2) Less than a majority of 
respondents had presented a paper at a professional meeting during the 3 years
preceding the survey. (3) Only a small percentage of respondents had been
involved in research. (4) Promotion opportunities and academic preparation are
the primary factors that encourage scholarly pursuits, and heavy teaching
responsibility is the primary discouraging factor. (5) Scholarly activity is
perceived as an important consideration in academic promotion decisions.
CONCLUSION: Respiratory care program faculty and administration should take steps
to increase the scholarly production of faculty members.

PMID: 10315767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Toxicology. 1988 Nov 30;52(3):225-35.

Choleresis and increased biliary efflux of glutathione induced by phenolic
antioxidants in rats.

Jaeschke H(1), Wendel A.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisch-chemisches Institut der Universitaet, Tuebingen, F.R.G.

The mechanism by which high doses of the synthetic antioxidants butylated
hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) raise hepatic glutathione
levels above physiological values was investigated in rats. A single dose of an
antioxidant (200 mg/kg; p.o.) reduced the hepatic glutathione content by 17%
(BHA) or 36% (BHT) after 5 h, but in contrast levels of 55% (BHA) or 34% (BHT)
above controls (7.1 +/- 0.5 mumol GSH-equivalents/g liver wt) were measured 48 h 
after dosing. Both antioxidants increased basal bile flow (1.37 +/- 0.11
microliter/min per g liver wt) and biliary efflux of total glutathione, i.e. GSH 
and GSSG, (4.18 +/- 0.97 nmol GSH-eq./min per g) severalfold (up to 250%) over
controls 24 h after in vivo antioxidant treatment. The sinusoidal efflux of
reduced glutathione (14.9 +/- 2.2 nmol GSH-eq./min per g) was significantly
reduced (BHA: 23%; BHT: 41%). The increased glutathione excretion into bile is
likely to be independent of the induction of the choleresis. The secretion of
bile salts was unaffected by BHA treatment and only temporarily reduced by
BHT.CONCLUSION: phenolic antioxidants increase the hepatic turnover of
glutathione by stimulating the biliary efflux of GSH. The resulting shift from a 
predominantly sinusoidal efflux of GSH in controls (hepato-renal circulation) to 
a predominantly biliary efflux of GSH in antioxidant-treated animals
(entero-hepatic circulation) may lead to increased concentrations of cysteine,
glycine and glutamic acid in the portal vein and consequently may stimulate the
biosynthesis of GSH by enhanced substrate availability in the liver.

PMID: 3188036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


931. BMJ. 1988 Nov 26;297(6660):1374-9.

Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator and size of infarct, left ventricular
function, and survival in acute myocardial infarction.

Van de Werf F(1), Arnold AE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital, Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess effect of intravenous recombinant tissue type
plasminogen activator on size of infarct, left ventricular function, and survival
in acute myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: Double blind, randomised, placebo controlled prospective trial of
patients with acute myocardial infarction within five hours after onset of
symptoms.
SETTING: Twenty six referral centres participating in European cooperative study 
for recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator.
PATIENTS: Treatment group of 355 patients with acute myocardial infarction
allocated to receive intravenous recombinant plasminogen activator. Controls
comprised 366 similar patients allocated to receive placebo.
INTERVENTION: All patients were given aspirin 250 mg and bolus injection of 5000 
IU heparin immediately before start of trial. Patients in treatment group were
given 100 mg recombinant tissue plasminogen activator over three hours (10 mg
intravenous bolus, 50 mg during one hour, and 40 mg during next two hours) by
infusion. Controls were given placebo by same method. Full anticoagulation
treatment and aspirin were given to both groups until angiography (10-22 days
after admission). beta Blockers were given at discharge.
END POINT: Left ventricular function at 10-22 days, enzymatic infarct size,
clinical course, and survival to three month follow up.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mortality was reduced by 51% (95% confidence
interval -76 to 1) in treated patients at 14 days after start of treatment and by
36% (-63 to 13) at three months. For treatment within three hours after
myocardial infarction mortality was reduced by 82% (-95 to -31) at 14 days and by
59% (-83 to -2) at three months. During 14 days in hospital incidence of cardiac 
complications was lower in treated patients than controls (cardiogenic shock,
2.5% v 6.0%; ventricular fibrillation, 3.4% v 6.3%; and pericarditis, 6.2% v
11.0% respectively), but that of angioplasty or artery bypass, or both was higher
(15.8% v 9.6%) during the first three months. Bleeding complications were
commoner in treated than untreated patients. Most were minor, but 1.4% of treated
patients had intracranial haemorrhage within three days after start of infusion. 
Enzymatic size of infarct, determined by alpha hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase
concentrations, was less (20%, 2p = 0.0018) in treated patients than in controls.
Left ventricular ejection fraction was 2.2% higher (0.3 to 4.0) and end diastolic
and end systolic volumes smaller by 6.0 ml (-0.2 to -11.9) and 5.8 ml (-0.9 to
-10.6), respectively, in treated patients.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator with heparin and
aspirin reduces size of infarct, preserves left ventricular function, and reduces
complications and death from cardiac causes but at increased risk of bleeding
complications4+

PMCID: PMC1835088
PMID: 3146370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


932. BMJ. 1988 Nov 19;297(6659):1295-300.

The Bristol third stage trial: active versus physiological management of third
stage of labour.

Prendiville WJ(1), Harding JE, Elbourne DR, Stirrat GM.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Bristol Maternity Hospital,
Avon.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects on fetal and maternal morbidity of routine
active management of third stage of labour and expectant (physiological)
management, in particular to determine whether active management reduced
incidence of postpartum haemorrhage.
DESIGN: Randomised trial of active versus physiological management. Women entered
trial on admission to labour ward with allocation revealed just before vaginal
delivery. Five months into trial high rate of postpartum haemorrhage in
physiological group (16.5% v 3.8%) prompted modification of protocol to exclude
more women and allow those allocated to physiological group who needed some
active management to be switched to fully active management. Sample size of 3900 
was planned, but even after protocol modification a planned interim analysis
after first 1500 deliveries showed continuing high postpartum haemorrhage rate in
physiological group and study was stopped.
SETTING: Maternity hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Of 4709 women delivered from 1 January 1986 to 31 January 1987,
1695 were admitted to trial and allocated randomly to physiological (849) or
active (846) management. Reasons for exclusion were: refusal, antepartum
haemorrhage, cardiac disease, breech presentation, multiple pregnancy,
intrauterine death, and, after May 1986, ritodrine given two hours before
delivery, anticoagulant treatment, and any condition needing a particular
management of third stage.
INTERVENTIONS: All but six women allocated to active management actually received
it, having prophylactic oxytocic, cord clamping before placental delivery, and
cord traction; whereas just under half those allocated to physiological
management achieved it. A fifth of physiological group received prophylactic
oxytocic, two fifths underwent cord traction and just over half clamping of the
cord before placental delivery.
ENDPOINT: Reduction in incidence of postpartum haemorrhage from 7.5% under
physiological management to 5.0% under active management.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Incidence of postpartum haemorrhage was 5.9% in
active management group and 17.9% in physiological group (odds ratio 3.13; 95%
confidence interval 2.3 to 4.2), a contrast reflected in other indices of blood
loss. In physiological group third stage was longer (median 15 min v 5 min) and
more women needed therapeutic oxytocics (29.7% v 6.4%). Apgar scores at one and
five minutes and incidence of neonatal respiratory problems were not
significantly different between groups. Babies in physiological group weighed
mean of 85 g more than those in active group. When women allocated to and
receiving active management (840) were compared with those who actually received 
physiological management (403) active management still produced lower rate of
postpartum haemorrhage (odds ratio 2.4;95% CI1.6 to 3.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Policy of active management practised in this trial reduces
incidence of postpartum haemorrhage, shortens third stage, and results in reduced
neonatal packed cell volume.

PMCID: PMC1834913
PMID: 3144366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 15;109(10):805-18.

When and how to study the carotid arteries.

Feussner JR(1), Matchar DB.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To appraise critically the clinical indications for diagnostic
evaluation of carotid artery disease and the efficacy, safety, limitations, and
relative costs of commonly used noninvasive diagnostic tests.
DESIGN: Formal decision analysis to determine the relative value of several
diagnostic strategies and information synthesis of studies evaluating noninvasive
diagnostic tests.
SETTING: We did a secondary analysis of the literature, using available data to
generate estimates for the probability of selected, clinically important events
and the utilities of relevant outcomes observed in patients when carotid artery
disease is present or absent, and we critically appraised studies reported since 
1980 to estimate the sensitivity and specificity, safety, limitations, and costs 
of diagnostic tests.
MAIN RESULTS: For patients with asymptomatic neck bruits who are and who are not 
being considered as candidates for other vascular surgery, no diagnostic testing 
is recommended. For symptomatic patients with anterior-circulation transient
ischemic attacks or previous minor strokes, noninvasive diagnostic testing is
recommended if surgical treatment is being considered. Patients who previously
had minor strokes could be directly referred for selective carotid angiography
because they have a higher likelihood of a surgically approachable carotid
lesion. Patients with nonlateralizing signs and symptoms of ischemia do not need 
diagnostic evaluation of possible carotid artery disease unless their symptoms
are related to ischemia in the carotid artery circulation. The preferred
noninvasive diagnostic test is duplex ultrasound, which has a sensitivity of
approximately 85% and a specificity of 90%. If duplex ultrasound is not
available, an alternative noninvasive test is carotid Doppler ultrasound.
CONCLUSIONS: We recommend a conservative diagnostic approach in patients with
suspected carotid artery disease. Noninvasive diagnostic testing is indicated
only for symptomatic patients with transient ischemic attacks in the anterior
circulation who are considered candidates for carotid endarterectomy, when
knowledge of the vessel anatomy is necessary.

PMID: 3056158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 15;109(10):783-8.

Treatment of cytomegalovirus pneumonia with ganciclovir and intravenous
cytomegalovirus immunoglobulin in patients with bone marrow transplants.

Reed EC(1), Bowden RA, Dandliker PS, Lilleby KE, Meyers JD.

Author information: 
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if the combination of ganciclovir and intravenous
cytomegalovirus immunoglobulin is effective in patients with cytomegalovirus
pneumonia after bone marrow transplant.
DESIGN: Consecutive entry trial with treatment for a minimum of 14 days.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 25 patients with bone marrow transplants and
cytomegalovirus pneumonia after transplant proven by open lung biopsy or
bronchoalveolar lavage. Patients with abnormal renal function or concomitant
infectious causes of pneumonia, or who were respirator-dependent at diagnosis,
were not eligible.
INTERVENTIONS: Induction treatment consisted of ganciclovir, 2.5 mg/kg body
weight every 8 hours for 14 days, and cytomegalovirus immunoglobulin, 400 mg/kg
on days 1, 2, and 7 and 200 mg/kg on day 14. Ganciclovir dosage was adjusted for 
renal function. Patients who were improved but still symptomatic after 14 days
were given maintenance treatment consisting of ganciclovir, 5 mg/kg once daily
for an additional 14 days, and immunoglobulin, 200 mg/kg on day 21. Patients with
clinical deterioration continued to receive induction doses. Ganciclovir therapy 
was discontinued if the neutrophil count fell below 500 X 10(6)/L for 2
consecutive days.
MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: Serial tests of renal and liver function, blood
counts, and viral cultures of blood, throat, and urine were obtained 3 times a
week. Thirteen of twenty-five (52%) patients (95% CI, 31 to 72) survived the
initial episode of pneumonia. Viral excretion ceased in 17 of 23 (74%) patients
treated more than 96 hours. Proven recurrences of pneumonia occurred in 3
patients and possible recurrences in 2 after treatment was stopped. Three
patients developed neutropenia during induction therapy and 6 patients during
maintenance therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival of 13 (52%) of 25 patients from the initial episode of
cytomegalovirus pneumonia with the regimen of ganciclovir and cytomegalovirus
immunoglobulin is significantly better (P less than 0.001) than the survival of
13 of 89 (15%) patients using previous antiviral regimens.

PMID: 2847610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 15;109(10):777-82.

Cytomegalovirus pneumonia after bone marrow transplantation successfully treated 
with the combination of ganciclovir and high-dose intravenous immune globulin.

Emanuel D(1), Cunningham I, Jules-Elysee K, Brochstein JA, Kernan NA, Laver J,
Stover D, White DA, Fels A, Polsky B, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of the combination of the antiviral agent
ganciclovir (9-1,3 dihydroxy-2-propoxymethylguanine) and high-dose intravenous
immune globulin for treating cytomegalovirus interstitial pneumonitis after
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized prospective trial of combined treatment with two drugs;
findings in these patients were compared with those in control patients treated
with either of the two drugs alone.
SETTING: Medical, pediatric, and intensive care units of a tertiary-care cancer
treatment center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive cases of 10 patients in the study group and of 11 patients 
in a historical control group with evidence of cytomegalovirus pneumonia after
bone marrow transplantation for treatment of leukemia or congenital immune
deficiency.
INTERVENTIONS: Study Group (10 patients): ganciclovir, 2.5 mg/kg body weight,
three times daily for 20 days, plus intravenous immune globulin, 500 mg/kg every 
other day for ten doses. Patients were then given ganciclovir, 5 mg/kg.d three to
five times a week for 20 more doses, and intravenous immune globulin, 500 mg/kg
twice a week for 8 more doses. Control Group (11 patients): ganciclovir alone (2 
patients), 5 mg/kg twice a day for 14 to 21 days; cytomegalovirus hyperimmune
globulin (5 patients), 400 mg/kg.d for 10 days; and intravenous immune globulin
(4 patients), 400 mg/kg.d for 10 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Responses were observed in all patients treated
with combination therapy; 7 of 10 patients were alive and well, and had no
recurrence of disease at a median of 10 months after therapy. No therapeutic
benefit was observed, and none of the 11 patients treated with either ganciclovir
or intravenous immune globulin alone survived (P = 0.001 by Fisher exact test).
CONCLUSIONS: Ganciclovir, when combined with high-dose intravenous immune
globulin, appears to have significantly altered the outcome of patients with
cytomegalovirus pneumonia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.

PMID: 2847609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 15;109(10):789-95.

Therapy for neutropenia in hairy cell leukemia with recombinant human granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor.

Glaspy JA(1), Baldwin GC, Robertson PA, Souza L, Vincent M, Ambersley J, Golde
DW.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether recombinant human granulocyte
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is effective in increasing neutrophil counts in
patients with hairy cell leukemia and neutropenia.
DESIGN: Open label, phase I/II study of G-CSF, given by daily subcutaneous
injection for up to 7 weeks.
SETTING: Outpatient oncology clinic of a university medical center.
PATIENTS: A consecutive sample of four patients with hairy cell leukemia
complicated by severe neutropenia. Three patients completed the study; one
patient was removed after 2 weeks of therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was given by daily
subcutaneous injection. Each patient began therapy with 1 microgram/kg body
weight.d; after 1 week the dose was increased to 3 micrograms/kg.d, and 1 week
later to 6 micrograms/kg.d. Therapy was continued for 5 to 6 weeks. Patients were
taught self-injection, and administered treatment at home.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In three patients, an increase in absolute
neutrophil counts from less than 0.9 X 10(9)/L to greater than 4.0 X 10(9)/L was 
noted within 2 weeks of beginning G-CSF therapy. In two patients, infections
resolved during therapy. One patient developed acute neutrophilic dermatosis (the
Sweet syndrome) while receiving 3 micrograms/kg.d of G-CSF, and drug therapy was 
discontinued.
CONCLUSIONS: Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor may increase neutrophil counts
within 2 weeks in patients with hairy cell leukemia and neutropenia. This therapy
may be a useful adjunct to definitive treatment of hairy cell leukemia with
interferon or pentostatin.

PMID: 2461131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Klin Wochenschr. 1988 Nov 15;66(22):1121-5.

[EEG findings in patients with a kidney transplant].

[Article in German]

Wendland KL(1), Butschkau M, Gundel A.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Psychiatrie im Zentrum Nervenheilkunde, Universität Kiel.

For a sample of 22 men and 9 women, 24-59 years old, closed-eye-EEGs were
registered three times a day: at 7 a.m., at 1 p.m., and at 7 p.m. Simultaneously 
with every EEG-registration the body temperature was measured. Apart from
traditional visual evaluation every EEG was recorded on tape for computer
processing. For comparison served corresponding data of 17 hemodialysis treated
(HD), and of 11 hemofiltration treated (HF) patients, of 12 healthy young
volunteers (J), and of 10 healthy old volunteers (A).RESULTS: As the illustration
shows, the occipital peak-frequency (F) of the renal transplant recipients (NT)
resembles that of the J and exceeds negligibly that of the A, whereas
considerable differences are revealed compared with the peak-frequencies of the
HD- and of the HF-patients. Statistically the peak-frequency of the NT-patients
occipital and parietal turns out significantly higher than that of the HD- and
HF-patients. According to these findings intraindividually in 5 of the former
HD-patients after transplantation a remarkable increase of the peak-frequency is 
visible. In addition to this the figure demonstrates, that only in the healthy
volunteers the peak-frequency (F) ascends corresponding with the body temperature
(T) from the morning to the evening, while in the NT-patients similar increases
scarcely are recognizable. In contrast to this in the HD- and HF-patients the
body temperature rises in the normal way, but there is no corresponding variation
of the peak-frequency. In the NT-patients pathological patterns are less frequent
than in the HD- and HF-patients, but nevertheless more frequent than in healthy
persons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3070149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


938. BMJ. 1988 Nov 12;297(6658):1236-9.

Recombinant DNA derived monomeric insulin analogue: comparison with soluble human
insulin in normal subjects.

Vora JP(1), Owens DR, Dolben J, Atiea JA, Dean JD, Kang S, Burch A, Brange J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wales College of Medicine, Health Park,
Cardiff.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the rate of absorption from subcutaneous tissue and the
resulting hypoglycaemic effect of iodine-125 labelled soluble human insulin and a
monomeric insulin analogue derived by recombinant DNA technology.
DESIGN: Single blind randomised comparison of equimolar doses of 125I labelled
soluble human insulin and insulin analogue.
SETTING: Study in normal people at a diabetes research unit and a university
department of medical physics.
SUBJECTS: Seven healthy male volunteers aged 20-39 not receiving any other drugs.
INTERVENTIONS: After an overnight fast and a basal period of one hour two doses
(0.05 and 0.1 U/kg) of 125I labelled soluble human insulin and insulin analogue
were injected subcutaneously into the anterior abdominal wall on four separate
days.
END POINT: To find a fast acting insulin for meal related requirements in insulin
dependent diabetics. MEASUREMENTS and main results--Residual radioactivity at the
injection site was measured continuously for the first two hours after injection 
of the 125I labelled preparations and thereafter for five minutes simultaneously 
with blood sampling. Frequent venous blood samples were obtained over six hours
for determination of plasma immunoreactive insulin, insulin analogue, glucose,
and glucagon values. Time to 50% of initial radioactivity at the injection site
for the insulin analogue compared with soluble insulin was 61 v 135 minutes (p
less than 0.05) with 0.05 U/kg and 67 v 145 minutes (p less than 0.001) with 0.1 
U/kg. Concentrations in plasma increased faster after the insulin analogue
compared with soluble insulin, resulting in higher plasma concentrations between 
10 and 150 minutes (0.001 less than p less than 0.05) after 0.05 U/kg and between
40 and 360 minutes (0.001 less than p less than 0.05) after 0.1 U/kg. The
hypoglycaemic response to insulin analogue was a plasma glucose nadir at 60
minutes with both doses compared with 90 and 120 minutes with soluble insulin at 
0.5 and 0.1 U/kg respectively. The response of glucagon substantiated the earlier
and more dramatic hypoglycaemic effect with the insulin analogue.
CONCLUSIONS: The much faster absorption from subcutaneous tissue of the
disubstituted monomeric insulin analogue compared with soluble insulin suggests
that the analogue may be a potential candidate for rapid insulin delivery after
subcutaneous bolus injection.

PMCID: PMC1834710
PMID: 3145064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. BMJ. 1988 Nov 5;297(6657):1169-72.

Relaxation and imagery in the treatment of breast cancer.

Bridge LR(1), Benson P, Pietroni PC, Priest RG.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Psychiatry, St. Mary's Hospital, London.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether stress could be alleviated in patients being treated
for early breast cancer.
DESIGN: Controlled randomised trial lasting six weeks.
SETTING: Outpatient radiotherapy department in a teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: One hundred fifty four women with breast cancer stage I or II after
first session of six week course of radiotherapy, of whom 15 dropped out before
end of study.
INTERVENTION: Patients saw one of two researchers once a week for six weeks.
Controls were encouraged to talk about themselves; relaxation group was taught
concentration on individual muscle groups; relaxation and imagery group was also 
taught to imagine peaceful scene of own choice to enhance relaxation. Relaxation 
and relaxation plus imagery groups were given tape recording repeating
instructions and told to practise at least 15 minutes a day.
END POINT: Improvement of mood and of depression and anxiety on self rating
scales.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Initial scores for profile of mood states and
Leeds general scales for depression and anxiety were the same in all groups. At
six weeks total mood disturbance score was significantly less in the intervention
groups, women in the combined intervention group being more relaxed than those
receiving relaxation training only; mood in the control group was worse. Women
aged 55 and over benefited most. There was no difference in Leeds scores among
the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with early breast cancer benefit from relaxation training.

PMCID: PMC1835041
PMID: 3144333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


940. BMJ. 1988 Nov 5;297(6657):1167-9.

Mastectomy or conservation: the patient's choice.

Wilson RG(1), Hart A, Dawes PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether, if given the choice, patients with breast 
cancer would prefer mastectomy or conservation treatment, neither treatment
having been shown to be preferable.
DESIGN: Non-randomised case series with 28 patients interviewed after two years
and all followed up.
SETTING: Secondary care referral centre.
PATIENTS: 153 women, aged less than 65, with T1, T2, N1, and N0 tumours of the
breast given the choice of treatment (that is, all eligible patients from
December 1979).
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were asked, after information and counselling, which
treatment they would prefer. The chosen treatment was given without further
question. Mastectomy included node sampling and local radiotherapy if indicated. 
Conservation treatment comprised excision of the lump, external radiotherapy, and
irridium wire implant to tumour bed.
MAIN RESULTS: Conservation treatment was chosen by 54 women and mastectomy by 99.
Reasons for preferring mastectomy included desire for rapid treatment for
domestic or employment reasons and fear of possibility of future mastectomy. Only
two of the sample interviewed regretted their choice. During limited follow up no
advantages to either form of treatment were seen in terms of recurrence or
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with breast cancer are capable of choosing treatment and
should play a part in deciding which treatment to have. They do not automatically
choose to retain the breast.

PMCID: PMC1835033
PMID: 3144332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


941. BMJ. 1988 Nov 5;297(6657):1159-61.

Sustained compression and healing of chronic venous ulcers.

Blair SD(1), Wright DD, Backhouse CM, Riddle E, McCollum CN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School, London.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1988 Dec 10;297(6662):1500.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Comparison of four layer bandage system with traditional
adhesive plaster bandaging in terms of (a) compression achieved and (b) healing
of venous ulcers.
DESIGN: Part of larger randomised trial of five different dressings.
SETTING: Outpatient venous ulcer clinic in university hospital.
PATIENTS: (a) Pressure exerted by both bandage systems was measured in the same
20 patients. (b) Healing with the four layer bandage was assessed in 148 legs in 
126 consecutive patients (mean age 71 (SE 2); range 30-96) with chronic venous
ulcers that had resisted treatment with traditional bandaging for a mean of 27.2 
(SE 8) months.
INTERVENTIONS: (a) Four layer bandage system or traditional adhesive plaster
bandaging for pressure studies; (b) four layer bandaging applied weekly for
studies of healing.
END POINTS: (a) Comparison of pressures achieved at the ankle for up to one week;
(b) complete healing within 12 weeks.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: (a) Four layer bandage produced higher initial
pressures at the ankle of 42.5 (SE 1) mm Hg compared with 29.8 (1.8) for the
adhesive plaster (p less than 0.001; 95% confidence interval 18.5 to 6.9).
Pressure was maintained for one week with the four layer bandage but fell to 10.4
(3.5) mm Hg at 24 hours with adhesive plaster bandaging. (b) After weekly
bandaging with the four layer bandage 110 of 48 venous ulcers had healed
completely within 12 (mean 6.3 (0.4)) weeks.
CONCLUSION: Sustained compression of over 40 mm Hg achieved with a multilayer
bandage results in rapid healing of chronic venous ulcers that have failed to
heal in many months of compression at lower pressures with more conventional
bandages.

PMCID: PMC1834977
PMID: 3144330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


942. BMJ. 1988 Nov 5;297(6657):1155-9.

Treating hypertension in black compared with white non-insulin dependent
diabetics: a double blind trial of verapamil and metoprolol.

Cruickshank JK(1), Anderson NM, Wadsworth J, Young SM, Jepson E.

Author information: 
(1)Central Middlesex Hospital, Park Royal, London.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare responses of blood pressure to the calcium antagonist
verapamil and the beta blocker metoprolol in black compared with white diabetics 
with hypertension and to monitor urinary albumin excretion in relation to fall in
blood pressure.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, random order crossover trial with four 
week placebo run in period and two six week active phases separated by a two week
placebo washout period.
SETTING: Outpatient department of a general hospital in a multiethnic health
department. Patients--Diabetic patients with hypertension. Four dropped out
before randomisation; 25 black and 14 white patients completed the trial.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients given slow release verapamil 120 mg or 240 mg twice daily
with placebo or metoprolol 50 mg or 100 mg twice daily with placebo. Treatment
for diabetes (diet alone or with oral hypoglycaemic drugs) remained unchanged.
END POINT: Comparison of changes in blood pressure in the two groups taking both 
drugs.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Metoprolol had little effect on blood pressure in 
black patients (mean fall 4.0 mm Hg systolic (95% confidence interval -2.5 to
10.4 mm Hg), 4.3 mm Hg diastolic (-0.8 to 9.5)) but more effect in white patients
(mean falls 13.4 mm Hg (0.1 to 26.7) and 10.6 mm Hg (4.5 to 16.7) respectively). 
Verapamil was more effective in both groups, with mean falls of 8.8 mm Hg (2.4 to
15.0) and 8.1 mm Hg (5.0 to 11.2) in black patients and 19.1 mm Hg (5.4 to 32.9) 
and 11.4 mm Hg (0.9 to 22.0) in white patients. Heart fate fell significantly in 
black patients taking metoprolol, which suggested compliance with treatment.
Metabolic variables were unaltered by either treatment. Plasma renin activity was
low in both groups after metoprolol treatment, but change in blood pressure could
not be predicted from baseline plasma renin activity. Urinary albumin:creatinine 
ratio was independently related to baseline blood pressure but not significantly 
changed by treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: beta Blockers alone are not effective in treating hypertension in
black diabetics. Verapamil is effective but less so than in white patients. As
yet no ideal monotherapy exists for hypertension in black patients.

PMCID: PMC1835009
PMID: 3144329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):668-74.

Decreased interleukin-1 production in aplastic anemia.

Gascon P(1), Scala G.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Section, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda,
Maryland.

PURPOSE: Interleukin-1 (IL-1), a monocyte factor, plays a central role in the
regulation of the immune response; recent data have suggested that IL-1 is the
same molecule as hemopoietin-1, a growth factor acting on the multipotent
hematopoietic stem cell. IL-1 affects hematopoiesis (1) in vitro, by inducing the
release of colony-stimulating factors and regulating early hematopoietic
progenitor cells, and (2) in vivo, by stimulating stem cell recovery in
irradiated or chemotherapy-treated mice. Several lines of evidence suggest that
aplastic anemia may be mediated by cells of the immune system. We address the
issue of abnormal IL-1 production in severe aplastic anemia and attempt to
correlate normalization of the levels with response to anti-thymocyte globulin
(ATG) therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied IL-1 production by monocytes from 21 patients
with aplastic anemia using a bioassay for IL-1 activity. Fifteen patients were
evaluated before ATG therapy. Eight patients were studied before and three months
after ATG. In addition, five patients were evaluated only after ATG treatment.
One patient did not respond to ATG but did respond to intravenous acyclovir, and 
was studied before and after acyclovir therapy. Twenty patients with other
hematologic disorders requiring transfusions and 30 normal healthy volunteers
were also assessed.
RESULTS: IL-1 production was markedly decreased in 75 percent of patients with
aplastic anemia when compared with that in normal control subjects (p less than
0.005). Hematologic recovery correlated with normalization of IL-1 production in 
all but two cases (p less than 0.04).
CONCLUSION: These observations represent the first evidence of monocyte
dysfunction and deficient hematopoietic growth factor production in aplastic
anemia. Decreased IL-1 production may have a pathologic role in some cases of
aplastic anemia.

PMID: 3263800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):662-7.

Syndrome of idiopathic hyperammonemia after high-dose chemotherapy: review of
nine cases.

Mitchell RB(1), Wagner JE, Karp JE, Watson AJ, Brusilow SW, Przepiorka D, Storb
R, Santos GW, Burke PJ, Saral R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Comment in
    Bone Marrow Transplant. 2006 May;37(9):899.
    Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):249-50.

PURPOSE: The syndrome of idiopathic hyperammonemia occurs in patients who have
received high-dose cytoreductive therapy for the treatment of hematologic
malignancy. It is characterized by abrupt alteration in mental status and
respiratory alkalosis associated with markedly elevated plasma ammonium levels in
the absence of any identifiable cause, and frequently results in intractable coma
and death. Our goal was to survey clinical and pathologic manifestations of the
disorder and discuss treatment options.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Plasma ammonium levels were measured in patients on the
acute leukemia service or on the bone marrow transplant service at The Johns
Hopkins Hospital, and a level more than twice normal was considered diagnostic of
hyperammonemia. The syndrome was identified in nine patients; in eight,
hyperammonemia occurred after administration of intensive cytoreductive therapy
that resulted in profound leukopenia. The disorder occurred in the ninth patient 
two months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
RESULTS: Three of the nine patients survived an episode of idiopathic
hyperammonemia; one patient subsequently died of leukemia and one of recurrent
idiopathic hyperammonemia. The one long-term survivor is currently alive and well
without neurologic sequelae 250 days after autologous bone marrow
transplantation.
CONCLUSION: Because neurologic function can deteriorate rapidly, early
recognition of this disorder and close monitoring of the patient's neurologic
status are critical.

PMID: 3189370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):658-61.

Increasing incidence and excellent survival of patients with early gastric
cancer: experience in a United States medical center.

Green PH(1), O'Toole KM, Slonim D, Wang T, Weg A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Pathology, Columbia University College of Physicians
and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032.

PURPOSE: In Japan, early gastric cancer has an excellent survival rate. In the
United States, the disease is less well understood, and it is viewed more
pessimistically, although we have previously shown in a small series of patients 
good short-term survival rates in early gastric cancer as compared with advanced 
gastric cancer. Our purpose in this study was to determine if the incidence of
early gastric cancer and the associated survival rate has changed over a 24-year 
period.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From the records at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical
Center, 549 patients were identified who underwent gastric resection for cancer
between 1960 and 1984, 69 of whom had early gastric cancer. Survival data were
obtained in 63 patients. A comparison of survival rates was conducted between
patients with early gastric cancer and the 1980 census figures.
RESULTS: Over the 24-year period, the total number of resections for gastric
cancer at our institution declined. However, the percentage of gastric resections
that satisfied the Japanese criteria for early gastric cancer increased from 9
percent between 1960 to 1974 to 17 percent between 1975 to 1984 (p less than
0.05). Of the 69 early gastric cancers, 35 percent involved the mucosa, whereas
in 65 percent the malignancy invaded the submucosa. Twenty-eight percent had
lymph node involvement. For the patients for whom survival data were available,
survival was better than the 1980 census (p less than 0.05). The adjusted
five-year survival rate was 97 percent. Neither submucosal invasion nor lymph
node involvement altered survival. Patients with type III early cancers
(ulcerated), however, had a significantly greater survival rate than patients
with type I (polypoid) early cancers (p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Early gastric cancer is being diagnosed with increasing frequency and
has an excellent survival rate. These findings are similar to the Japanese
experience and argue for an ongoing aggressive approach to endoscopic biopsy of
gastric lesions.

PMID: 3189369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):645-50.

Clinically significant valvular heart disease in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Straaton KV(1), Chatham WW, Reveille JD, Koopman WJ, Smith SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

PURPOSE: Clinically significant valvular heart disease due to systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE) has generally been considered rare, and Libman-Sacks
endocarditis has been thought to be predominantly an autopsy finding. With the
declining prevalence of rheumatic heart disease, however, the spectrum of
valvular heart disease is changing. We retrospectively analyzed our experience
with SLE between 1975 and 1987 for the presence of hemodynamically significant
valvular heart disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An existing data base of 421 patients with SLE was selected
for review. Patients were selected for inclusion in the study if they met four or
more of the criteria of the American Rheumatism Association for SLE, they had
clinically significant valvular heart disease, and tissue from the involved valve
was available for review. The etiology of the valve lesion was determined by
assessment of the clinical history, chart review, gross morphology, and valve
histology.
RESULTS: Of 14 cases with pathologic material available for review, six had
anatomic features of SLE valvular heart disease such as verrucous vegetations or 
valvulitis with necrosis and vasculitis. Two of these patients underwent
successful valve replacements and four died from complications of their valve
disease.
CONCLUSION: We suggest that significant morbidity and mortality may result from
SLE valvular heart disease in about 1 to 2 percent of SLE patients and that the
pathogenetic mechanisms underlying valve dysfunction in SLE patients are
multifactorial.

PMID: 3189368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):639-44.

Significance and correlations of molecular analysis results in patients with
Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myelogenous leukemia and chronic
myelomonocytic leukemia.

Kantarjian HM(1), Shtalrid M, Kurzrock R, Blick M, Dalton WT, LeMaistre A, Stass 
SA, McCredie KB, Gutterman J, Freireich EJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, M.D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute, Houston
77030.

PURPOSE: Several investigators have documented a rearrangement of the breakpoint 
cluster region (bcr) in selected patients with a morphologic diagnosis of chronic
myelogenous leukemia (CML) but no abnormality of the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)
by cytogenetic studies. Our intention was to systematically investigate the
incidence of the bcr rearrangement in such patients, and to correlate the
findings with patient characteristics, response to therapy (especially alpha
interferon treatment), and overall prognosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Molecular analysis studies were performed in 40 patients
with Ph-negative CML (23 patients) and myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML; 17
patients).
RESULTS: Rearrangement of the breakpoint cluster region (bcr) was detected in 11 
of the 23 patients with Ph-negative CML (48 percent), indicating the presence of 
the abnormal molecular events in Ph-positive CML without documentation of the Ph 
cytogenetic abnormality. None of the 17 patients with CMML had the bcr
rearrangement. Patients with Ph-negative CML and the bcr rearrangement had
characteristics similar to those of patients with Ph-positive disease. These
included a younger age, higher white blood cell counts, a higher incidence of
thrombocytosis and basophilia, and a lower occurrence of thrombocytopenia. The
leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score was not a helpful distinguishing feature.
Among 21 patients receiving alpha interferon-based regimens, response to therapy 
was significantly better among patients with Ph-negative disease and the bcr
rearrangement (seven of seven, 100 percent), compared with those without the bcr 
rearrangement (one of six, 17 percent), or patients with CMML (two of eight, 25
percent) (p less than 0.01). At this time of follow-up, only one of the 11
patients with Ph-negative CML and the bcr rearrangement had died from
complications of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, compared with three
deaths among the 12 patients with Ph-negative CML and no bcr rearrangement, and
11 deaths among the 19 patients with CMML.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that molecular studies help in better understanding the
nosology of Ph-negative CML, and define a subgroup of patients with clinical,
therapeutic, and prognostic correlations similar to those of patients with
Ph-positive CML.

PMID: 3189367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):624-31.

Multiple intensive care unit outbreak of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus subspecies
anitratus respiratory infection and colonization associated with contaminated,
reusable ventilator circuits and resuscitation bags.

Hartstein AI(1), Rashad AL, Liebler JM, Actis LA, Freeman J, Rourke JW Jr,
Stibolt TB, Tolmasky ME, Ellis GR, Crosa JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hospital Infection Control, Oregon Health Sciences University,
Portland 97201.

PURPOSE: Acinetobacter calcoaceticus subspecies anitratus (A. anitratus) can
cause nosocomially and community acquired pneumonia. Source identification of the
organism is often difficult. An outbreak of respiratory infection and
colonization with A. anitratus affecting 93 ventilated patients in all six of a
hospital's intensive care units (ICUs) over 10 months is described.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In April 1984, the infection control staff started to
review positive culture results from all patients in all ICUs. At this point,
information on significant isolates was recorded by patient, site, date, genus
and species, and antimicrobial susceptibility. During the month of August 1984,
an increased number of A. anitratus isolates from sputum began to be detected.
Information was expanded to include the date of hospital admission, ICU
admission, intubation, and extubation; the dates and types of all surgical
procedures; the results and dates of all prior sputum cultures; and the use of
nebulized bronchodilator medications. Monthly numbers of cases were compared for 
four months prior to the outbreak, during the outbreak, and for seven months
after the outbreak. Plasmid DNA from isolates was prepared, electrophoresed, and 
visualized. Isolates were designated according to the molecular weights of
visualized plasmids.
RESULTS: Barrier precautions and improved staff handwashing did not diminish the 
frequency of new cases. When pasteurized, reusable ventilator circuits and
resuscitation bags were cultured for the possibility of low-level contamination, 
18 percent were positive for A. anitratus. Terminal ethylene oxide sterilization 
of these devices was associated with prompt control of the outbreak. Plasmid DNA 
analysis of isolates from patients involved in the outbreak, contaminated
devices, and the hands of personnel responsible for device disinfection revealed 
two predominant plasmid profiles. After outbreak control, isolates with these
profiles were found much less frequently in patient specimens.
CONCLUSION: Contaminated, reusable ventilator support equipment may be a leading 
cause for the extent of A. anitratus in the sputum of intubated patients. This
problem is potentially correctable by the use of terminal etyhlene oxide
sterilization of reusable ventilator circuits and resuscitation bags.

PMID: 3189366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):619-23.

Aggressive combined modality treatment of progressive sinonasal fungal infections
in immunocompromised patients.

Goering P(1), Berlinger NT, Weisdorf DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis.

PURPOSE: Invasive fungal infections of the paranasal sinuses in immunocompromised
hosts are often fatal despite therapeutic interventions. In an effort to achieve 
a better outcome in patients with these infections, aggressive management was
combined with medical/surgical intervention.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A series of 18 immunocompromised patients with invasive
sinonasal fungal infections was retrospectively analyzed. Management consisted of
a combined modality clinical approach, including aggressively sought early
diagnosis; early amphotericin use; extensive surgical debridement; and liberal
use of granulocyte transfusion support.
RESULTS: Eight of 13 patients with eventual neutrophil recovery survived with
control of all local and systemic signs of fungal infection. All patients with
persisting neutropenia died of progressive infection.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that meticulous surveillance of patients in high-risk
groups for fungal infection should be maintained due to the apparent value of
rapid intervention with a combination of surgical resection and medical
management (antifungal chemotherapy and white blood cell transfusions). Infection
control and survival are ultimately dependent on recovery of marrow function and 
circulating neutrophils.

PMID: 3189365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):615-8.

Clinical significance and pathogenesis of hyperbilirubinemia associated with
Staphylococcus aureus septicemia.

Quale JM(1), Mandel LJ, Bergasa NV, Straus EW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York Health Science Center,
Brooklyn.

PURPOSE: Our goal was to examine the clinical significance of hyperbilirubinemia 
in patients with Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. In addition, preliminary
data concerning the possible mechanism of cholestasis observed during S. aureus
septicemia are presented.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study had two parts: a clinical investigation and a
laboratory investigation. In the former, patients with endocarditis were
identified through chart review. Those with admission total serum bilirubin
levels of 2.0 mg/dl or greater were considered to have hyperbilirubinemia. In the
latter investigation, the hepatic storage capacity and transport maximum for
sulfobromophthalein (BSP), an organic dye that is rapidly taken up and excreted
by the liver, were determined by measuring the change in serum concentration and 
the corresponding hepatic removal rate at various BSP infusion rates.
Measurements were conducted before and after the infusion of Escherichia
coli-derived lipopolysaccharide in some rabbits, after the infusion of
resuspended S. aureus in others, and after the infusion of lipoteichoic acid in
the remainder.
RESULTS: Eleven of 47 consecutive patients with S. aureus endocarditis were noted
to have hyperbilirubinemia without clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic
bacterial infection. Compared with the remaining 36 patients, these 11 patients
had a significantly lower mean platelet count and a higher serum creatinine level
and white blood cell count. Although none of the 47 patients were hypotensive on 
admission, four of the 11 hyperbilirubinemic patients died of overwhelming
sepsis, compared with two of the 36 remaining patients (p less than 0.05). When
one of the clinical isolates of S. aureus or lipoteichoic acid was infused into
conscious rabbits, there was a marked decrease in the hepatic transport maximum
and an increase in the relative hepatic storage capacity of sulfobromophthalein. 
Similar changes were noted following the administration of lipopolysaccharide.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that the presence of hyperbilirubinemia in patients 
with S. aureus sepsis may identify persons at high risk of dying from
overwhelming sepsis. It further suggests that lipoteichoic acid may play an
important role in causing defective hepatic excretory function that is
responsible for hyperbilirubinemia.

PMID: 3189364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):609-14.

Chronic hepatitis: disease factors at diagnosis predictive of mortality.

Lashner BA(1), Jonas RB, Tang HS, Evans AA, Ozeran SE, Baker AL.

Author information: 
(1)Liver Study Unit, University of Chicago Medical Center, Illinois 60637.

PURPOSE: Chronic hepatitis is known to be a disease with substantial mortality.
The purpose of this study was to identify prognostic factors in a large group of 
patients with chronic hepatitis. We also wanted to determine whether the
aminopyrine breath test (ABT) is of additional prognostic value in evaluation of 
this disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 94 patients who had had a biopsy-proven
diagnosis and an ABT between June 1, 1977, and June 30, 1981. Clinical features
and biochemical test results at the time of diagnosis were retrieved from medical
records, and histologic severity was assessed by reviewing all liver biopsy
specimens under code. Survival was determined at a mean of 60 months. Data were
studied with a Cox proportional hazards model to identify predictors of mortality
and to control for confounding variables.
RESULTS: Cumulative mortality as of December 31, 1985, was 5 percent in chronic
persistent hepatitis, 6 percent in chronic active hepatitis, 29 percent in
chronic active hepatitis with bridging necrosis, and 53 percent in chronic active
hepatitis with cirrhosis. Histologic severity was a predictor of death (p less
than 0.005). Other predictors of mortality were disease caused by hepatitis B
virus (p less than 0.005), a high alkaline phosphatase level (p less than 0.025),
a low alanine aminotransaminase level (p less than 0.001), and a depressed ABT
result (p less than 0.005).
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that patients with chronic hepatitis with one or 
more of these risk factors have an increased mortality and should be followed
closely for liver failure, which may necessitate medical therapy or surgical
intervention.

PMID: 3189363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):602-8.

Clinical significance of a single test for anti-cardiolipin antibodies in
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.

Kalunian KC(1), Peter JB, Middlekauff HR, Sayre J, Ando DG, Mangotich M, Hahn BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine 90024.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Nov;87(5):600-1.

PURPOSE: Clinicians have difficulty interpreting results of tests for
anti-cardiolipin antibodies (aCL) because of conflicting reports of the clinical 
associations of these antibodies in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus
(SLE). We therefore decided to evaluate the clinical associations of aCL in an
effort to facilitate interpretation of single reports of either positive or
negative test results. We also assessed the role of estrogen on the development
of aCL.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 85 consecutive
outpatients with SLE and 40 control subjects. Serum samples and clinical and
laboratory data were obtained from each patient and control. Testing for aCL was 
performed using a standardized enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay developed at
an international workshop.
RESULTS: The presence of aCL was documented in 42.4 percent of patients with SLE 
and 7.5 percent of control subjects. In patients with SLE, these antibodies were 
significantly associated with thrombosis, fetal loss, and thrombocytopenia, but
not with other manifestations. Measurement of all isotypes optimized clinical
correlations. Titers did not add clinical utility. Fluctuations of levels of aCL 
occurred, making it difficult to interpret a single negative result. Among
control subjects, the presence of aCL was not significantly more common in women 
who used oral contraceptives.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that positive results of testing for aCL
correlate with a predisposition for thrombosis, fetal loss, and thrombocytopenia 
in patients with SLE; however, the test is not predictive for other clinical
manifestations of SLE, including activity and severity of disease. We believe
that measurement of all isotypes of aCL should be performed in patients with SLE 
considering pregnancy, to identify those with a high risk of fetal loss, and in
SLE patients with a thrombotic episode.

PMID: 3189362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):651-7.

Myocardial calcification and cardiac dysfunction in chronic renal failure.

Rostand SG(1), Sanders C, Kirk KA, Rutsky EA, Fraser RG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

PURPOSE: Myocardial calcium content may have clinical importance in end-stage
renal disease (ESRD), but it is difficult to detect during life. Our goal was to 
assess the effect of myocardial calcium content on left ventricular ejection
fraction (LVEF) in uremic patients undergoing dialysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Energy subtraction radiography of the chest was used to
measure myocardial calcium content in 43 patients undergoing dialysis, in 32
control subjects, and in nine patients with advanced cardiomyopathy. LVEF and
left ventricular end-diastolic dimension were measured by two-dimensional
echocardiography. The concentration of parathyroid hormone was measured by
radioimmunoassay; calcium-phosphorus product, alkaline phosphatase, and serum
bicarbonate were also assessed.
RESULTS: Patients undergoing dialysis had a greater myocardial calcium content
than control subjects [262 +/- 15.4 (mean +/- SE) versus 187 +/- 8 mg/cm2, p less
than 0.05]. Ten patients with the highest myocardial calcium content (Group I)
had the lowest LVEF values and highest left ventricular end-diastolic dimension. 
Significant inverse linear associations between LVEF and myocardial calcium
content (r = -0.425, p = 0.013) and between parathyroid hormone concentration and
LVEF (r = -0.352, p = 0.047) were noted. There was no association between
parathyroid hormone concentration and myocardial calcium content. Stepwise
regression analysis showed a strong positive correlation between myocardial
calcium content and calcium-phosphorus product, vascular calcification, race
(black), and parathyroidectomy. Similar analysis shows that LVEF was
significantly associated with myocardial calcium content, lung calcium,
calcium-phosphorus product, and race (black).
CONCLUSION: We suggest that increased myocardial calcium content results from
poor calcium and phosphorus control and may be enhanced by parathyroid hormone
hyperactivity. Increased myocardial calcium content is strongly associated with
myocardial dysfunction in patients undergoing dialysis.

PMID: 3055977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Am J Med. 1988 Nov;85(5):632-8.

Relationship between corticosteroid exposure and plasma lipid levels in heart
transplant recipients.

Becker DM(1), Chamberlain B, Swank R, Hegewald MG, Girardet R, Baughman KL,
Kwiterovich PO, Pearson TA, Ettinger WH, Renlund D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,
Maryland.

PURPOSE: Accelerated coronary atherosclerosis is a major cause of heart graft
failure two years and more after heart transplantation, yet its etiology remains 
undetermined. We conducted this study to determine the prevalence of coronary
risk-associated lipid abnormalities, and the relationship between lipid levels
and exposure to corticosteroids and cyclosporine, in heart transplant recipients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of 92 consecutive heart transplant recipients
from three different transplantation centers were reviewed. Patients from the
three centers varied in age, in corticosteroid regimens, and in the proportion
undergoing transplantation for ischemic cardiomyopathy. Although 11 patients were
not receiving corticosteroids at the time of the study, all patients had received
them immediately after transplantation. In addition to information pertaining to 
demographics, pretransplant medical history, rejection episodes, drug doses,
renal function, and blood glucose levels, data on dietary intake and body weight 
were collected and plasma lipid levels were measured at the time of record
review.
RESULTS: A significant number, 48 (52 percent), of heart transplant recipients
were above the sex- and age-adjusted 75th percentile, and 35 (38 percent) were
above the 90th percentile for total cholesterol in comparison with a general
reference population. Similar elevations were found in low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol, triglyceride, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.
Bivariate analysis demonstrated cumulative prednisone exposure (r = 0.40, p =
0.0001) and cumulative cyclosporine exposure (r = 0.22, p = 0.04) but not diet or
etiology of pretransplant heart disease to be significantly associated with age- 
or sex-adjusted total cholesterol percentiles. Low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol percentiles were also correlated with cumulative prednisone (r =
0.37, p = 0.001) and cumulative cyclosporine exposure (r = 0.24, p = 0.02).
Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis, however, demonstrated cumulative
prednisone exposure to be the strongest predictor of both total and low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol levels and percentiles (p = 0.0001), independent of
cumulative cyclosporine exposure and other clinical variables.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that long-term corticosteroid exposure may result 
in an increased prevalence of unfavorable lipid profiles in heart transplant
recipients.

PMID: 3055976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 1;109(9):718-21.

Zidovudine for the treatment of thrombocytopenia associated with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). A prospective study. The Swiss Group for Clinical
Studies on the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS).

[No authors listed]

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of zidovudine on platelet counts in
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated thrombocytopenia.
DESIGN: The study was prospective, controlled, and blinded. Each patient received
active drug and placebo. Platelet counts were compared before and after receiving
zidovudine.
SETTING: Outpatient clinics in Geneva, Lausanne, and Zürich, Switzerland.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of ten patients (five intravenous drug addicts, four 
homosexual men, one Zairian) who were seropositive for HIV, and had platelet
counts between 20 and 100 X 10(9)/L (20,000 to 100,000/mm3). Patients with the
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were not enrolled. None had been
previously treated for thrombocytopenia, and no medication except zidovudine or
placebo was administered during the trial period.
INTERVENTIONS: Five patients received 8 weeks of zidovudine (2 g/d for 2 weeks,
and 1 g/d for 6 weeks), followed by 8 weeks of placebo. The other five patients
received placebo for 8 weeks followed by zidovudine.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Platelet counts increased in each patient while on
zidovudine, but not while on placebo; the mean increase was 54.6 X 10(9)/L +/-
11.25 (SE) from 53.2 to 107.8 X 10(9)/L (P less than 0.004). After the end of
zidovudine treatment, platelet counts remained elevated for more than 4 weeks in 
three of five patients. One patient developed granulocytopenia and anemia during 
treatment with zidovudine.
CONCLUSIONS: Zidovudine is a potential new treatment for HIV-associated
thrombocytopenia.

PMID: 3190058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 1;109(9):745-51.

Coding of acute myocardial infarction. Clinical and policy implications.

Iezzoni LI(1), Burnside S, Sickles L, Moskowitz MA, Sawitz E, Levine PA.

Author information: 
(1)Boston University Medical Center, Massachusetts.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the appropriateness of diagnostic coding of acute
myocardial infarction across teaching and nonteaching hospitals.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of a random sample of medical records to find
evidence of the occurrence and active treatment of acute myocardial infarction
during the admission.
SETTING: Five tertiary teaching, five other teaching, and five nonteaching
hospitals in metropolitan Boston.
CASES: Random sample of hospital admissions assigned a discharge diagnosis of
acute myocardial infarction between October 1984 and September 1985.
MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 1003 cases reviewed, 260 did not meet the
clinical criteria for acute myocardial infarction. At tertiary hospitals, 175
(41.7%) failed to qualify, compared with 25 (9.1%) at nonteaching facilities. In 
a large fraction of the disqualified cases, the patients had been admitted to
exclude the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction; although explicitly "ruled 
out," an acute myocardial infarction code was assigned. Sixty-six cases from
teaching hospitals did not qualify because the patient had been admitted only for
coronary angiography after an uneventful postmyocardial infarction course. Almost
one-third of these patients had had their infarcts from 5 to 8 weeks before the
angiography admission.
CONCLUSIONS: Cases with an inappropriate discharge diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction may be concentrated in teaching hospitals. This finding could have
implications for Medicare's diagnosis-related group payment system and
governmental and other research efforts that use these data for such purposes as 
drawing inferences about the quality of hospital care.

PMID: 3142326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 1;109(9):705-12.

Illnesses associated with Escherichia coli O157:H7 infections. A broad clinical
spectrum.

Griffin PM(1), Ostroff SM, Tauxe RV, Greene KD, Wells JG, Lewis JH, Blake PA.

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To describe the spectrum of illnesses associated with
Escherichia coli O157:H7 infections.
DESIGN: Described an outbreak that showed the broad spectrum of these infections.
Reviewed the clinical findings in the other eight major outbreaks reported
between 1982 and 1986. Also reviewed reports of sporadic cases.
SETTING: Outbreaks in communities, nursing homes, a day care center, and a
kindergarten.
CASES: Persons identified in outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections.
RESULTS: Escherichia coli O157:H7 infection causes bloody diarrhea (hemorrhagic
colitis), nonbloody diarrhea, the hemolytic uremic syndrome, and thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura. Infection can be asymptomatic, can involve
extraintestinal sites, and can be fatal. Bloody diarrhea is the commonest
symptom. Most patients have severe abdominal cramps; fever is documented in less 
than half. Findings from fecal leukocyte examinations often suggest a
noninfectious cause. Results of radiologic and colonoscopic examinations can be
consistent with a diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease or ischemic colitis.
Patients at the extremes of age are at increased risk for E. coli
O157:H7-associated diarrhea, the hemolytic uremic syndrome, thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura, and death. Antimicrobial agents have not been shown to 
modify the illness, but there are few data on individual agents.
CONCLUSION: Infection with E. coli O157:H7 should be considered in all patients
with bloody diarrhea, the hemolytic uremic syndrome, or thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura because the infection can masquerade as gastrointestinal
bleeding of noninfectious cause, the antecedent diarrhea may be resolved and
forgotten by the time the hemolytic uremic syndrome or thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura is diagnosed, and the detection of E. coli O157:H7
requires specific stool culture techniques.

PMID: 3056169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Nov 1;109(9):695-704.

Epstein-Barr virus in the bone marrow of patients with aplastic anemia.

Baranski B(1), Armstrong G, Truman JT, Quinnan GV Jr, Straus SE, Young NS.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether Epstein-Barr virus is present in the bone
marrow of patients with aplastic anemia.
DESIGN: Assay of fresh and fixed bone marrow specimens for Epstein-Barr virus
using immunofluorescence for nuclear antigen, Southern analysis with an
Epstein-Barr virus specific probe, and in-situ hybridization.
SETTING: Governmental medical referral center.
PATIENTS: Five patients were studied prospectively: three who previously had
infectious mononucleosis, one with a recent viral pneumonitis, and one who was
asymptomatic. Stored DNA samples from other patients with aplastic anemia were
also screened.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Epstein-Barr virus DNA and protein were detected
in the bone marrow of 5 patients studied prospectively and in 1 of 40 patients
studied retrospectively. As estimated by in-situ hybridization, about 3% to 5% of
marrow cells were infected with virus in those patients who had not received
acyclovir. In contrast, Epstein-Barr virus DNA was not detected in peripheral
blood DNA of these patients, nor were Epstein-Barr virus proteins or DNA found in
the bone marrow of normal donors, patients with other hematologic diseases, or in
1 patient with acute infectious mononucleosis. Analysis of DNA fragments by
hybridization with Epstein-Barr virus probes showed a pattern dissimilar to the
type of Epstein-Barr virus usually associated with infectious mononucleosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Aplastic anemia may be associated with Epstein-Barr virus more
commonly than suspected by history. Localization of the virus in the bone marrow 
supports a causative role for Epstein-Barr virus in bone marrow failure.

PMID: 2847613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1988 Nov;59(11 Pt 1):1055-60.

Local fluid losses enhance heart rate drives in light to moderate exercise.

Essfeld D(1), Baum K, Stegemann J.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut, Deutschen Sporthochschule Köln, Federal Republic of
Germany.

Dynamic calf muscle exercise of different intensities was performed at 90 degrees
knee-joint flexion. To obtain different hydrostatic pressures and calf volumes,
all exercise tests were conducted both in prone and supine position after 10 min 
of rest in the respective positions. Severe prone exercise was associated with
increased anaerobic metabolism, reduced exercise tolerance time, and pain
sensation. Despite these differences, maximal heart rates were nearly identical
in both positions. During light to moderate exercise, heart rate was
significantly increased in the prone position. In a steady-state exercise test
this difference developed gradually during the first 10 min of exercise. Neither 
changes in muscle metabolism nor baroreceptor influence or pain sensation could
account for this effect.DISCUSSION: 1) At high exercise intensities in the prone 
position, the decreased hydrostatic pressure reduces maximal exercise duration by
virtue of reduced maximal muscle perfusion. 2) In steady-state prone exercise,
the local fluid loss appears to increase peripheral heart rate drives.

PMID: 3202786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Cancer. 1988 Nov 1;62(9):2056-9.

Genital papillomavirus infection after treatment for cervical intraepithelial
neoplasia (CIN) III.

Bistoletti P(1), Zellbi A, Moreno-Lopez J, Hjerpe A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge
University Hospital, Sweden.

Genital human papillomavirus (HPV) infection was studied in 150 women after
conization for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade three (CIN III).
Colposcopically directed biopsies were taken from the cervix and vulva for
histopathological diagnosis. 77 specimens were further analyzed
immunohistochemically for the presence of HPV capsid antigen. In ten randomly
selected cervical biopsies cellular DNA was dot blot hybridized with HPV 6/11 and
16/18 DNA probes. Genital warts were seen in 10 (7%) of the patients. Among the
routine cytological smears, HPV infection was only reported in 3 (2%). In 87/142 
(61%) of the cervical tissues koilocytes were found. A further 9/142 (6%)
associated with CIN. Of the vulvar biopsies 91/145 (63%) contained koilocytes. A 
further 12/145 (8%) were associated with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. HPV
capsid proteins were detected in 35/77 (45%) of the cervical and in 20/41 (49%)
of the vulva biopsies. All cervical DNA samples hybridized with probes for HPV
6/11 and two also reacted with the HPV 16/18 probes.CONCLUSION: A latent HPV
infection of the cervix or vulva, can be detected in 85% of the women previously 
treated for CIN III by conization.

PMID: 2844389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Fam Med. 1988 Nov-Dec;20(6):449-57.

From soma to psyche: the crucial connection. Part 2. 'Cross-cultural medicine'
decoded: learning about 'us' in the act of learning about 'them'.

Marcus L, Marcus A.

The scorpion's bite--a culturally inept response to a medical emergency. Margaret
Clark's criteria--keys to cultural barriers in medical care. Clifford Geertz's
injunction: to view the culturally "different" as mirrors of the unacknowledged
self. The case of José--scandal of his "compartmentalized" treatment.QUESTION:
How much context may a physician be willing to absorb? Shawcross's The Quality of
Mercy: western medical teams in Cambodian refugee camps--their good intentions
versus their ethnocentric gaffes. The elderly as avatars of a "culture within a
culture." Their beliefs, fears, dreams, and intimations--a "terra incognita" for 
service providers. Sardonic recoil against them (as in Shem's novel House of God)
by residents--a professionally sanctioned response, deflecting what might
otherwise be unendurable demands on their varied quotas of pity. Sisela Bok's
moral claims: (1) for the integrity of decision making among the sick; (2) for
the autonomy of the "dying response" among the aged. Steinberg's The Ethnic Myth:
indictment of those using cultural difference to "explain" (or rationalize)
health--and other--deficits rooted in historic, social, or economic inequity.

PMID: 3072233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Gan No Rinsho. 1988 Nov;34(14):2007-14.

[Synchronous double cancers in the ovary and kidney--a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Myoga H(1), Tamaki M, Shinko Y, Ohta S, Shigemasa K, Nogawa T, Katsube Y,
Fujiwara A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Obstet. & Gyne., Hiroshima Univ. School of Med.

A first case of synchronous double cancers in the ovary and kidney is presented. 
The patient is a 37-year-old woman complaining of an abdominal mass.
Histopathological findings showed a mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the right
ovary and a renal cell carcinoma, common type, clear cell subtype of the right
kidney. A metastatic renal cell carcinoma was found on the pelvic peritoneum and 
characteristic renal cancer cells were identified in the ascitic fluid.
(EVALUATIONS: ovarian cancer, stage Ia; renal cancer, stage IV) The patient
received postoperative chemotherapy and, after recovery, was discharged in a
healthy condition. Her 11-month postoperative evaluation revealed no evidence of 
disease.

PMID: 2849689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Burn Care Rehabil. 1988 Nov-Dec;9(6):584-8.

The suppressive effect of subeschar tissue fluid upon in vitro cell-mediated
immunologic function.

Ferrara JJ(1), Dyess DL, Luterman A, Curreri PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of South Alabama, Mobile 36688.

Fluid administered during resuscitation translocates beneath the burn wound and
is considered inert "third space" loss. This study was done to determine whether 
subeschar tissue fluid (STF) functions as an immunobiologic reservoir. Seven
patients with a mean BSA burn of 55% underwent isotonic volume resuscitation and 
burn treatment with low penetration topical agents. STF was collected at the time
of fascial excision. Chemical analysis of STF was similar to serum; bacterial
cultures grew no organisms. Ten percent dilutions of STF and burn serum
significantly blunted mitogen-induced blastogenic response compared to control
serum. STF was significantly more suppressive than burn serum (P less than
.03).CONCLUSIONS: 1. STF may act as both an immunologic barrier to microbial
clearance in otherwise viable subcutaneous tissue and a reservoir for
systemically reabsorbed immunosuppressive factors. 2. In addition to removing
dead tissue, fascial excision may prove beneficial because it removes large
amounts of immunosuppressive STF.

PMID: 3220864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 1988 Nov;60(1):101-4.

Androgens and transforming growth factor beta modulate the growth response to
epidermal growth factor in human prostatic tumor cells (LNCaP).

Schuurmans AL(1), Bolt J, Mulder E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Treatment of LNCaP human prostatic cancer cells with 0.1 nM of the synthetic
androgen, R1881, resulted in a three-fold stimulation of growth in 6 days. Of
several growth factors tested (epidermal growth factor (EGF), platelet-derived
growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, and insulin) only EGF (1 ng/ml)
stimulated cell growth (two-fold). This stimulatory effect of EGF was inhibited
for approximately 70% by 0.02 ng transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta)/ml.
EGF (1 ng/ml) acted synergistically with R1881 (0.1 nM) on LNCaP cells to induce 
cell proliferation (seven-fold increase in cell growth). The synergistic effect
of androgen and EGF was inhibited by TGF beta (0.05 ng/ml).IN CONCLUSION: human
prostatic LNCaP cells are sensitive to EGF. Androgen increases and TGF beta
decreases the growth response to EGF. This effect of TGF beta on an
androgen-responsive system has not been observed before.

PMID: 3265111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1988 Nov;11(11 Pt 2):1954-9.

Predictive value of various types of ventricular response to programmed
ventricular stimulation: relation to Holter monitoring.

Wnuk-Wojnar AM(1), Giec L, Drzewiecki J, Trusz-Gluza M, Szulc A.

Author information: 
(1)1st Cardiologic Clinic, Silesian Medical Academy, Silesian Heart Center,
Katowice, Poland.

The study was performed to determine the predictive value of programmed
stimulation for identification of pts with ventricular arrhythmias: 75 patients
were studied by means of 24-hour ambulatory ECG (24 ECG) and programmed right (in
some patients also left) ventricle stimulation at sinus and two or three pacing
rates using two (standard) and three extrastimuli or burst stimulation (extensive
protocol). Lown classes 0, 1-3 and 4a-4b were observed in 24 ECG in 35, 14, and
26 patients, respectively. In programmed stimulation 1-6 repetitive ventricular
responses (RVR) were found in 56 pts, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 11 
and sustained ventricular tachycardia in 21 pts. High incidence of induced VT was
found in pts with complex ventricular arrhythmia in 24 ECG, 81% of this group, in
all but six pts only standard protocol was used. The 1-6 RVR were observed in
almost 40% of pts without any arrhythmia.CONCLUSION: Only VT induction is a
useful index for high risk patients.

PMID: 2463572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1988 Nov;11(11 Pt 2):1667-72.

Atrial fibrillation and embolic complications in paced patients.

Langenfeld H(1), Grimm W, Maisch B, Kochsiek K.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital of Internal Medicine, Wurzburg, FRG.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) and thromboembolism are discussed to be complications of
the VVI mode. We reinvestigated the spontaneous ECG and the anamnesis of 246
pacemaker patients with the indications second and third degree atrioventricular 
block (AV block, n = lll), sick sinus syndrome (SSS, n = 101) and other
indications (n = 34), all had shown sinus rhythm at implantation. The mean
implantation time was 63 +/- 45 months (203 VVI and 43 dual chamber
pacemakers).THE RESULTS: (1) Atrial fibrillation was found in 63 patients (26%). 
Only one of them had a DDD pacemaker inserted, the implantation time of dual
chamber devices being shorter, however, (2) The incidence of AF in patients with 
SSS (37%) was significantly higher (P less than 0.01) than in patients with AV
block (19%). (3) Three patients suffered from strokes or transitory ischemic
attacks in the follow-up, only one of them had AF at control.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm that VVI stimulation favors AF long-term which
is most likely due to irritation of the atrial rhythm by retrograde conduction.
In our patients the incidence of thromboembolic complications was not higher in
the group of patients with AF. However, from this study in surviving patients, we
cannot exclude that we lost some patients due to severe stroke.

PMID: 2463530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1988 Nov;11(11 Pt 1):1607-16.

Effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy on cardiac pacemakers and its
safety in patients with implanted cardiac pacemakers.

Cooper D(1), Wilkoff B, Masterson M, Castle L, Belco K, Simmons T, Morant V,
Streem S, Maloney J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio.

Effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) were studied on 15
pacemakers (standard single chamber n = 5, dual chamber n = 6, rate responsive
single chamber [Activitrax] n = 4). In-vitro testing involved suspending the
pacemakers in a bath of degassified, deionized water firmly taped to a platform
at the point of maximal pressure, i.e., second focal point (F2), where they
received pressure shocks (means = 1300) from the HM3 Dornier lithotriptor. The
pacemakers, programmed to their most sensitive setting, were continuously pacing 
at nominal outputs (atrial and ventricular pacing in the DDD mode). All units
were assessed by a pacing system analyzer before and after the study, then
underwent destructive analysis. During standard single chamber pacing (VVI) the
pacing stimulus triggered ESWL. For dual chamber devices, ESWL was triggered by
the atrial paced event which induced inhibition of the ventricular output in two 
pacemaker. This was eliminated by reprogramming to a less sensitive setting. The 
pacemaker can, hermetic seal and internal circuitry were undamaged in all units. 
Two rate responsive single chamber pacemakers had their activity sensing
piezoelectric elements shattered when placed at F2. Two other units placed 5 cm
from F2 were stimulated to their maximum upper programmed pacing rate with ESWL
therapy, but were otherwise unaffected. Subsequent to this study, six patients
with pacemakers programmed to the VVI (five), DDD (one) modes implanted in the
thorax underwent successful ESWL without pacemaker or arrhythmic
event.CONCLUSIONS: (A) It is generally safe for patients implanted with standard 
single chamber devices in a ventricular application to undergo ESWL without
modifying the pacing/sensing parameters. (B) Patients implanted with dual chamber
devices who pace in the atrium should be reprogrammed to the VVI mode during
ESWL. (C) Patients with piezoelectric activity sensing rate responsive single
chamber pacemakers should have this feature programmed off during ESWL and, if
implanted in the abdomen, probably should not undergo ESWL.

PMID: 2462246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. BMJ. 1988 Oct 29;297(6656):1086-91.

Protection of kidney function and decrease in albuminuria by captopril in insulin
dependent diabetics with nephropathy.

Parving HH(1), Hommel E, Smidt UM.

Author information: 
(1)Hvidöre Hospital, Klampenborg, Denmark.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether long term inhibition of angiotensin converting
enzyme with captopril and frusemide or bendrofluazide protects kidney function in
diabetic nephropathy.
DESIGN: Non-randomised controlled before-after trial of matched hypertensive
insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy treated with captopril and frusemide
or bendrofluazide.
SETTING: Outpatient diabetic clinic in tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: Treatment group of 18 hypertensive insulin dependent diabetics with
nephropathy (mean age 33), who had not been treated previously. Control group of 
13 patients (mean age 32) fulfilling the same entry criteria from a prospective
study.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment group was given daily captopril 37.5-100.0 mg and
frusemide (mean) 98 mg (10 patients) or bendrofluazide (mean) 4 mg (seven).
Treatment was continued for about two and a half years. Controls were not
treated.
END POINT: Measurement of arterial blood pressure, albuminuria, and glomerular
filtration.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Baseline values were identical in treated and
untreated groups respectively: mean blood pressure 146/93 (SE 3/1) mm Hg v 137/95
(2/1) mm Hg; geometric mean albuminuria 982 (antilog SE 1.2) micrograms/min v 936
(1.2) micrograms/min; and mean glomerular filtration rate 98 (SE 5) ml/min/1.73
m2 v 96 (6) ml/min/1.73 m2. Mean arterial blood pressure fell by 8.7 (1.3) mm Hg 
with captopril and rose by 6.6 (1.5) mm Hg in controls, (p less than 0.001);
Albumin excretion decreased to 390 (1.1) micrograms/min with captopril and rose
to 1367 (1.3) micrograms/min in controls (p less than 0.001). The rate of
decrease in glomerular filtration rate was lower with captopril (5.8 (0.7)
ml/year v 10.0 (1.3) ml/year) (p less than 0.01). Rate of fall in glomerular
filtration rate and mean arterial blood pressure were significantly correlated (n
= 31, r = 0.37, p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Captopril is a valuable new drug for treating hypertension in
insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy.

PMCID: PMC1834890
PMID: 3143437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. BMJ. 1988 Oct 29;297(6656):1083-6.

Effectiveness of geriatric rehabilitative care after fractures of the proximal
femur in elderly women: a randomised clinical trial.

Kennie DC(1), Reid J, Richardson IR, Kiamari AA, Kelt C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Royal Infirmary, Stirling.

OBJECTIVE: To compare postoperative collaborative care between orthopaedic
surgeons and physicians in geriatric medicine with routine orthopaedic care in
elderly women with proximal femoral fracture.
DESIGN: Exclusion of patients dying before fit enough to enter trial, those with 
pathological fractures, those likely to be discharged within seven days of
entering the trial, and those remaining unfit for transfer to a peripheral
hospital. Remainder allocated to two groups: treatment group and control group.
SETTING: District hospital acute admission ward and rehabilitation ward.
PATIENTS: 144 sequentially admitted elderly women with proximal fracture of the
femur; 36 excluded on above criteria and remainder entered into trial.
INTERVENTION: Both treatment and control groups (n = 54 in each) received
physiotherapy and other services. The treatment group also received thrice weekly
supervision by a geriatrician.
END POINTS: Physical independence, residence after discharge, and length of
hospital stay.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At discharge significantly more patients in
treatment group were independent in terms of activities of daily living than
controls (41 v 25) and their median stay was 24 days (range 8-197) compared with 
41 (9-365) (95% confidence intervals for difference 2 to 25). Significantly fewer
treatment patients were discharged to institutional care (10% v 32%; 95%
confidence interval for difference 6% to 37%) and more to their own homes (63% v 
38%; 95% confidence interval for difference 6% to 44%). These beneficial effects 
were consistent across a range of ages and mental state.
CONCLUSIONS: Both hospital and patient benefited when postoperative
rehabilitation was provided in a setting specialising in such care for elderly
patients with trauma.

PMCID: PMC1834847
PMID: 3143436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. BMJ. 1988 Oct 29;297(6656):1092-5.

Prevention of diabetic nephropathy with enalapril in normotensive diabetics with 
microalbuminuria.

Marre M(1), Chatellier G, Leblanc H, Guyene TT, Menard J, Passa P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Diabétologie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness of inhibition of angiotensin
converting enzyme in preventing diabetic nephropathy.
DESIGN: Randomised follow up study of normotensive diabetics with persistent
microalbuminuria (30-300 mg/24 hours) treated with enalapril or its matched
placebo for one year. Double blind for first six months, single blind for last
six months.
SETTING: Diabetic clinic in tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: Treatment group and placebo group each comprised 10 normotensive
diabetics with persistent microalbuminuria.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment group was given enalapril 20 mg daily and controls
matched placebo. Patients were given antihypertensive treatment after one year.
END POINT: Albumin excretion, arterial pressure, and renal function.
MAIN RESULTS: In last three months of trial three of 10 patients taking placebo
had diabetic nephropathy (albumin excretion greater than 300 mg/24 hours). No
patients taking enalapril developed nephropathy and five showed normal albumin
excretion (less than 30 mg/24 hours) (p = 0.005, Mann-Whitney test). Mean
arterial pressure was reduced by enalapril throughout study (p less than 0.005)
but increased linearly with placebo (p less than 0.05). Albumin excretion
decreased linearly with enalapril but not placebo. An increase in albumin
excretion with placebo was positively related to the increase in mean arterial
pressure (r = 0.709, p less than 0.05, Spearman's rank test). With enalapril
total renal resistances and fractional albumin clearances improved progressively 
(time effect, p = 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme prevents development of
nephropathy in normotensive diabetics with persistent microalbuminuria. This may 
be due to reduction in intraglomerular pressure and to prevention of increased
systemic blood pressure. Future studies should compare long term effects of
inhibitors of converting enzyme with other antihypertensive drugs.

PMCID: PMC1834866
PMID: 2848604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


971. BMJ. 1988 Oct 22;297(6655):1017-21.

Prevention of gastroduodenal damage induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs: controlled trial of ranitidine.

Ehsanullah RS(1), Page MC, Tildesley G, Wood JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Glaxo Group Research Limited, Greenford,
Middlesex.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prophylactic effect of ranitidine 150 mg twice daily
in patients requiring one of the following non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs:
naproxen, piroxicam, diclofenac, and indomethacin. In addition, risk factors were
studied in order to help in targeting of such treatment to specific groups of
patients.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, randomised, parallel group with
endoscopic assessments at 0, 4, and 8 weeks.
SETTING: Multicentre outpatient study at secondary referral centres in five
European countries. PATIENTS--297 patients with rheumatoid arthritis or
osteoarthritis over the age of 18 without lesions in the stomach and duodenum at 
baseline endoscopy (after one week without taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs). Those taking other antirheumatic agents, concomitant ulcerogenic drugs,
or treatment for peptic ulcers within the previous 30 days were excluded. Age,
sex, arthritic disease, and type of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used
were comparable in the two treatment groups. In all, 263 patients completed the
trial.
INTERVENTIONS: Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily or placebo (plus the selected
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) was prescribed within five days after the
baseline endoscopy for two consecutive periods of four weeks. Paracetamol was
permitted during the study, but not antacids. Patients were withdrawn if the most
severe grade of damage (including ulceration) was found at the four week
endoscopy or when indicated, or with lesser damage at the investigator's
discretion.
END POINT: Frequency of gastric and duodenal ulceration or lesions, or both.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of peptic ulceration by
eight weeks was 10.3% (27/263); 2 out of 135 (1.5%) developed duodenal ulceration
in the ranitidine group, compared with 10 out of 126 (8%) taking placebo. The
frequency of gastric ulceration was the same (6%) for the two groups at eight
weeks. Though significantly fewer gastric lesions developed in the ranitidine
group by eight weeks. The frequency of non-ulcerative lesions in the duodenum did
not differ greatly for the two groups at either time point. Twelve out of 75
(16%) patients taking piroxicam developed peptic ulceration, of whom two thirds
had duodenal ulceration. Patients with a history of peptic ulcer were
particularly susceptible to recurrent ulceration, against which ranitidine
offered some protection.
CONCLUSIONS: Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily significantly reduced the incidence of
duodenal ulceration but not gastric ulceration when prescribed concomitantly with
one of four commonly used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

PMCID: PMC1834765
PMID: 3142593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 15;109(8):619-24.

Right-sided Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in intravenous drug abusers:
two-week combination therapy.

Chambers HF(1), Miller RT, Newman MD.

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco General Hospital, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of short-course combination regimens
for selected cases of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in intravenous drug
abusers.
DESIGN: Open study of nafcillin and tobramycin or vancomycin and tobramycin
administered for 2 weeks with no further therapy.
SETTING: County hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 53 intravenous drug abusers with relatively
uncomplicated right-sided S. aureus endocarditis, defined by clinical and
echocardiographic criteria, and without renal insufficiency, extrapulmonary
metastatic infectious complications requiring prolonged therapy or surgery for
cure, meningitis, methicillin-resistant organism, aortic or mitral valve
involvement, or pregnancy.
INTERVENTIONS: Nafcillin, 1.5 g intravenously every 4 hours, plus tobramycin, 1
mg/kg body weight intravenously every 8 hours, administered for 2 weeks.
Vancomycin, 30 mg/kg per day intravenously, in two or three divided doses, was
used instead of nafcillin for patients allergic to penicillin.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Forty-seven of 50 patients (94%; 95% CI, 87 to
99+) treated with the nafcillin and tobramycin combination were cured. Only 1 of 
3 patients treated with vancomycin plus tobramycin (33%, 95% CI, 2 to 86) was
cured.
CONCLUSIONS: Selected patients with S. aureus endocarditis can be treated safely 
and effectively with a 2-week course of nafcillin plus tobramycin. Only one of
three patients treated with vancomycin plus tobramycin was cured, but three
patients are too few to define with confidence the efficacy of this regimen.

PMID: 3421575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 15;109(8):613-8.

Distinguishing benign from malignant euadrenal masses.

Gross MD(1), Shapiro B, Bouffard JA, Glazer GM, Francis IR, Wilton GP, Khafagi F,
Sonda LP.

Author information: 
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of
131I-6-beta-iodomethylnorcholesterol (NP-59) adrenal scintigraphy in
distinguishing benign from malignant euadrenal masses.
DESIGN: Case series of patients with incidentally discovered unilateral,
euadrenal masses.
SETTING: Referral-based nuclear medicine clinics at university and affiliated
Veterans Administration medical centers.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 119 euadrenal patients with unilateral adrenal
masses discovered on computed tomographic (CT) scans for reasons other than
suspected adrenal disease.
INTERVENTIONS: Adrenal scintiscans done using 1 mCi of NP-59 intravenously, and
gamma camera imaging 5 to 7 days later.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean lesion diameter was 3.3 +/- 1.9 cm (SD) (95% 
CI: 2.9 to 3.6 cm). In 76 patients, NP-59 uptake lateralized to the abnormal
adrenal seen on CT scans (concordant imaging), and in all of these patients, a
diagnosis of adenoma was made by needle-aspiration biopsy, adrenalectomy, or
extended follow-up with repeat CT scans that were unchanged at 6 months or later.
Twenty-six patients had absent or markedly reduced NP-59 uptake in the glands
identified as abnormal on CT scans (discordant imaging). These adrenal masses
proved to be metastatic malignancies in 19 patients, primary adrenal neoplasms
other than adenoma in 4, and adrenal cysts in 3. Bilateral, symmetric
accumulation of NP-59 was seen in 17 patients, in whom the adrenal masses were
shown to be metastatic malignancies in 2, and adenomas in 6 (the lesions in these
cases being 2 cm or less in diameter), and lesions not truly involving the
adrenal in the rest (periadrenal metastases in 4 and pseudoadrenal masses in 5). 
Sensitivity was 76% (26 of 34 patients; CI, 58% to 88%); specificity, 100% (85 of
85 patients; CI, 95% to 100%), and accuracy, 93% (111 of 119 patients: CI, 88% to
98%).
CONCLUSIONS: Functional NP-59 scintigraphy can be used to accurately and
noninvasively characterize many euadrenal masses; concordance of CT and NP-59
scans can be used to exclude the presence of a malignancy or other
space-occupying adrenal lesion.

PMID: 3421574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 15;109(8):664-70.

The use and misuse of upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.

Kahn KL(1), Kosecoff J, Chassin MR, Solomon DH, Brook RH.

Author information: 
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine how appropriately physicians in 1981 did upper
gastrointestinal endoscopy in a randomly selected, community-based sample of
Medicare patients.
DESIGN: We developed a comprehensive and clinically detailed list of 1069
indications for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. A national panel of nine
clinicians rated the appropriateness of the indications. We categorized the
indications as appropriate, inappropriate, or equivocal. We did a clinically
detailed medical record review of a random sample of 1585 patients having upper
gastrointestinal endoscopy to assess the appropriateness of using upper
gastrointestinal endoscopy.
SETTING: Patients were sampled from large geographic areas in three states. Two
areas represented high use, and one area, low use.
PATIENTS: Random sample of patients 65 years of age or older receiving diagnostic
upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
INTERVENTIONS: None; the study was retrospective.
MEASUREMENT AND RESULTS: Patient characteristics, histories, and clinical
indications for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy were similar across low- and
high-use areas. Overall, 72% of the endoscopies were done for appropriate
indications, 11% for equivocal indications, and 17% for inappropriate
indications. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding (26%), follow-up to an abnormal
upper gastrointestinal series (21%), dysphagia (18%), and dyspepsia (15%) were
the most frequent clinical reasons for doing endoscopy. Inpatient endoscopies
were more often appropriate and less often inappropriate than outpatient
endoscopies.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis of practice patterns among study sites provides the
clinical basis for understanding the use of upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. The
finding of 17% inappropriate use may be cause for concern.

PMID: 3262326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 15;109(8):629-34.

Hypertension, exercise, and beta-adrenergic blockade.

Ades PA(1), Gunther PG, Meacham CP, Handy MA, LeWinter MM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Vermont School of Medicine.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether beta-adrenergic blocking agents affect
exercise tolerance, exercise conditioning response, and blood pressure response
to conditioning in hypertensive patients.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial with a 10-week
exercise period.
SETTING: Outpatient, monitored exercise program at a community-based,
university-sponsored cardiac rehabilitation facility.
PATIENTS: Thirty adults with mean resting blood pressure of 145 mm Hg or greater 
(systolic), 95 mm Hg or greater (diastolic), or a combined systolic and diastolic
pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or greater. Mean systolic pressure of 170 mm Hg or more 
or mean diastolic pressure of 105 mm Hg or more was exclusionary. Mean blood
pressure was 145/95 mm Hg; mean age was 46.5 years.
INTERVENTION: The beta-1-nonselective blocker was propranolol, 80 mg twice daily.
The beta-1-selective blocker was metoprolol, 100 mg twice daily, compared with
placebo. All patients did exercise conditioning consisting of 40 sessions of
aerobic exercise with heart rate monitoring.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Resting systolic blood pressure measured without
drug therapy was lowered markedly after exercise conditioning on placebo (146 to 
135 mm Hg) and on metoprolol (144 to 133 mm Hg) (P less than 0.05), but not on
propranolol (no change). Acutely, propranolol decreased both maximal oxygen
consumption (VO2max) and exercise duration compared with metoprolol and placebo. 
Chronically, VO2max increased 24% (95% CI, 8 to 40) in response to training on
placebo and 8% on metoprolol (95% CI, 3 to 14); it did not increase on
propranolol (95% CI, -10 to 15).
CONCLUSIONS: If an exercise program is to be recommended as an adjunct to
pharmacologic beta-blockade for hypertension, blood-pressure-lowering effects are
preserved and exercise capacity is less affected with a beta-1-selective agent
than with a beta-1-nonselective agent. Antihypertensive medications may be
avoided altogether for selected patients who sustain an aerobic exercise program.

PMID: 2901818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 15;109(8):625-8.

Bronchoalveolar lymphocytosis in patients with tropical spastic paraparesis
associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1). Clinical,
immunologic, and cytologic studies.

Couderc LJ(1), Caubarrere I, Venet A, Magdeleine J, Jouanelle A, Danon F, Buisson
G, Vernant JC.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Foch, Suresnes, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the features of pulmonary involvement in patients
with tropical spastic paraparesis associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus
type 1.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized prospective case series.
SETTING: Tertiary care units in two university medical centers.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 21 patients with tropical spastic paraparesis
associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 infection.
INTERVENTIONS: Chest roentgenogram and bronchoalveolar lavage were done in all
patients. Fifteen patients had pulmonary function tests. Alveolar T-lymphocyte
subsets were analysed in 10 patients and thoracic computed tomographic scans were
done in 10 patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients were free of clinical pulmonary
symptoms and had normal chest roentgenograms. Thoracic computed tomographic scans
were normal in 9 of 10 patients and showed mild interstitial pneumonitis in 1.
Pulmonary function tests were within the normal range in 13 patients and showed a
mild restrictive syndrome in 2. Eighteen patients had increased absolute numbers 
of alveolar lymphocytes (mean, 77 +/- 39 X 10(3) lymphocytes/mL; range, 13.5 X
10(3) to 259 X 10(3) lymphocytes/mL). Sixteen patients had percentages of
alveolar lymphocytes higher than 20% of all alveolar cells (mean, 33.5 +/- 12.7; 
range, 9 to 69). In all 10 patients tested, 64.2% +/- 13.2% of alveolar
lymphocytes were CD8+ cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Excessive absolute numbers and percentages of alveolar lymphocytes
were observed in 18 and 16 patients, respectively. Most alveolar lymphocytes were
CD8+ cells.

PMID: 2901817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. BMJ. 1988 Oct 15;297(6654):958-60.

Wholemeal versus wholegrain breads: proportion of whole or cracked grain and the 
glycaemic response.

Jenkins DJ(1), Wesson V, Wolever TM, Jenkins AL, Kalmusky J, Guidici S, Csima A, 
Josse RG, Wong GS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect on the glycaemic response to bread of
the ratio of whole cereal grains to milled flour.
DESIGN: Randomised assignment of groups of diabetic volunteers to test and
control meals, taken after an overnight fast. Test foods were also analysed for
in vitro digestion with human saliva.
SETTING: Tertiary care centre.
PATIENTS: Groups of six drawn from pool of 16 volunteers with diabetes mellitus
(11 men, five women; mean age 64 (SE 3); 10 taking insulin, five taking oral
agents, one controlled by diet; other characteristics comparable).
INTERVENTIONS: All patients took standard white bread control meals on three
occasions spanning the study and on different mornings took test meals containing
varying ratios of whole cereal grains (barley or cracked wheat) to milled flour
(75:25, 50:50, 0:100). All meals contained 50 g available carbohydrate and were
eaten in 15 minutes. Capillary blood samples were taken for determination of
glucose concentrations every 30 minutes for three hours.
END POINT: Glycaemic index of foods (= increase in area under blood glucose
concentration curve for test food divided by increase in area under curve for
white bread control X 100).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Significant trend to lower glycaemic index with
increasing proportion of whole cereal grains in test bread (p less than 0.05) and
lower in vitro digestibility (p less than 0.001). Breads containing up to 75%
whole grain were considered palatable.
CONCLUSIONS: Breads containing a high proportion of whole cereal grains may be
useful in reducing the postprandial blood glucose profile in diabetics because
they are more slowly digested. These breads should be called "wholegrain" in
distinction to "wholemeal" breads made from milled flour.

PMCID: PMC1834634
PMID: 3142566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


978. BMJ. 1988 Oct 15;297(6654):943-8.

Mammographic screening and mortality from breast cancer: the Malmö mammographic
screening trial.

Andersson I(1), Aspegren K, Janzon L, Landberg T, Lindholm K, Linell F, Ljungberg
O, Ranstam J, Sigfússon B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Malmö General Hospital, Sweden.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2006 Mar 25;332(7543):727.
    BMJ. 2006 Mar 25;332(7543):727.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether mortality from breast cancer could be
reduced by repeated mammographic screening.
DESIGN: Birth year cohorts of city population separately randomised into study
and control groups.
SETTING: Screening clinic outside main hospital.
PATIENTS: Women aged over 45; 21,088 invited for screening and 21,195 in control 
group.
INTERVENTIONS: Women in the study group were invited to attend for mammographic
screening at intervals of 18-24 months. Five rounds of screening were completed. 
Breast cancer was treated according to stage at diagnosis.
END POINT: Mortality from breast cancer.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All women were followed up and classed at end
point as alive without breast cancer, alive with breast cancer, dead from breast 
cancer, or dead from other causes. Cause of death was taken from national
mortality registry and for patients with breast cancer was validated
independently. Mean follow up was 8.8 years. Altogether 588 cases of breast
cancer were diagnosed in the study group and 447 in the control group; 99 v 94
women died of all causes and 63 v 66 women died of breast cancer (no significant 
difference; relative risk 0.96 (95% confidence interval 0.68 to 1.35)). In the
study group 29% more women aged less than 55 died of breast cancer (28 v 22;
relative risk 1.29 (0.74 to 2.25)). More women in the study group died from
breast cancer in the first seven years; after that the trend reversed, especially
in women aged greater than or equal to 55 at entry. Overall, women in the study
group aged greater than or equal to 55 had a 20% reduction in mortality from
breast cancer (35 v 44; relative risk 0.79 (0.51 to 1.24)). OTHER FINDINGS: In
the study group 100 (17%) cancers appeared in intervals between screenings and
107 (18%) in non-attenders; 51 of these women died from breast cancer. Cancers
classed as stages II-IV comprised 33% (190/579) of cancers in the study group and
52% (231/443) in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Invitation to mammographic screening may lead to reduced mortality
from breast cancer, at least in women aged 55 or over.

PMCID: PMC1834636
PMID: 3142562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1988 Oct 7;100(19):648-52.

[Spontaneous variability and reproducibility of Doppler echocardiography
determination of heart minute volumes in infancy].

[Article in German]

Stern H(1), Haberhauer P, Bühlmeyer K, Emmrich P.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik der Technischen Universität München, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

Day-to-day variability in Doppler derived cardiac output measurements was
assessed in 10 infants (0-6 months of age) and in 12 older children (1-13 years, 
mean: 7.4 years) with congenital heart disease which had been treated surgically.
There was no valvular stenosis or ventricular septal defect, all patients had
technically excellent imaging quality. Standard commercial equipment (Mark 8,
ATL; 3, 5 or 7.5 MHz scanheads) was used for echo recordings, which were stored
on video tapes and blindly evaluated by an independent investigator. Cardiac
outout (CO) was measured over the aortic and pulmonary valves on two consecutive 
days using standard projections. Mean CO variability of the infants was 32% and
41% for the aortic and pulmonary valves, respectively. The corresponding
variability in CO in the older children was 41% and 32% for the aortic and
pulmonary valves respectively. The greatest difference existed in measuring
cross-sectional areas of aorta and pulmonary artery (29-37%). The Doppler
parameters showed the lowest variability (13-26%), except for the pulmonary
artery in the infants (46%). On heart rate, there was a "physiological"
day-to-day variability of 10-20%.CONCLUSION: There is a considerable variability 
in Doppler derived CO measurements. The detection of CO changes in critically ill
children might be missed by this error. CO measurements over the aortic valve
seem to be more reliable than over the pulmonary valve.

PMID: 3239062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1988 Oct-Dec;25(4):289-97.

Diet only or diet and sulfonylureas in mild type II diabetes (NIDDM)?
Pathophysiologic and therapeutic implications.

Sinay IR(1), Arias P, Schnitman MA, Damilano SA, Faingold MC, Moguilevsky JA.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Endocrinologia, Hospital Francés, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Plasma glucose, insulin and C-peptide responses to a test meal were studied in 7 
nonobese patients with type II diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) treated with diet alone 
and after 6 months of gliclazide therapy, as well as in 6 matched controls. The
glycemic levels were significantly higher (p less than 0.05) in patients under
diet alone than in controls and after gliclazide treatment (peak: 12.8 +/- 1.0;
7.9 +/- 0.4 and 10.0 +/- 0.5 mmol/l, respectively; means +/- SEM). Diet and
gliclazide treated patients showed a reduced B-cell response during the first
hour after the meal as indicated by insulin and C-peptide values and areas
(insulin areas 0-60 min: controls 57.9 +/- 10.9; p less than 0.01 vs diet alone
14.2 +/- 2.7 and vs gliclazide 22.1 +/- 2.8 microU/ml/min). The hypoinsulinemic
phase lasted from 20 to 60 min before gliclazide, and from 20 to 45 min after
gliclazide. The first significant C-peptide increase, detected at 10 min in
controls and at 30 min under diet alone, was advanced to 15 min after gliclazide 
treatment.IN CONCLUSION: patients with mild, diet-treated NIDDM show a sluggish
and attenuated B-cell response to a physiologic challenge (test meal); this
secretory impairment is present even after a complete post-prandial glycemic
normalization, supporting the idea of a persistent defect. Nevertheless, the
slight improvement observed in insulin secretion after gliclazide treatment may
be promoting, at least partially, the normalization of prandial hyperglycemia.
The benefits of this normalization in diabetic patients previously controlled by 
diet only await further investigation.

PMID: 3072813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1988 Oct;119(2):240-4.

The circadian rhythm of melatonin in hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.

Soszyński P(1), Zgliczyński S, Pucilowska J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Medical Centre for Postgraduate Education, Warsaw,
Poland.

In order to determine the influence of thyroid function on the pineal gland in
humans, the circadian rhythm of the serum melatonin concentration was estimated
in 16 women with thyroid disorders: 8 with hypothyroidism and 8 with
hyperthyroidism, as well as in 5 healthy controls. A significant melatonin
circadian rhythm was observed in all the three groups studied. The melatonin
rhythm parameters derived from cosinor analysis: mesor (controls: 0.163 +/- 0.03 
nmol/l (+/- SEM), hypothyroid patients: 0.176 +/- 0.22 nmol/l, and hyperthyroid
patients: 0.167 +/- 0.04 nmol), amplitude (0.155, 0.145 and 0.138 nmol/l,
respectively), acrophase (1:38, 2:22 and 1:51 h, respectively) did not differ
significantly in the three groups studied. Integrated 24-h melatonin secretion
was also similar in patients and controls. The melatonin concentrations were
positively correlated with TSH levels in hypothyroidism, and negatively
correlated with T3 in hyperthyroidism.IN CONCLUSION: in patients with hypo- and
hyperthyroidism the circadian rhythm of melatonin secretion is not altered.

PMID: 3176816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1988 Oct;119(2):228-34.

Characterization of the insulin resistance of glucose utilization in adipocytes
from patients with hyper- and hypothyroidism.

Pedersen O(1), Richelsen B, Bak J, Arnfred J, Weeke J, Schmitz O.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Department III, Aarhus Amtssygehus, Denmark.

Insulin action on glucose utilization was characterized in adipocytes from 10
thyrotoxic patients, 6 hypothyroid patients and 10 age- and sex-matched control
subjects. In thyrotoxic patients insulin binding at low insulin concentrations
was reduced (P less than 0.05) and accompanied by impaired insulin sensitivity of
glucose transport (P less than 0.02), glucose oxidation (P less than 0.05) and
lipogenesis (P less than 0.05). Glucose transport and glucose oxidation rates
also exhibited depressed maximal insulin responsiveness (P less than 0.05). In
hypothyroid patients insulin binding was reduced, too, (P less than 0.05) and
associated with impaired sensitivity to insulin of glucose transport (P less than
0.05). Both glucose transport and lipogenesis rates showed decreased maximal
insulin responsiveness (P less than 0.05).IN CONCLUSION: In man, both hyper- and 
hypothyroidism are characterized by insulin resistance of adipocyte glucose
utilization localized to insulin binding as well as to insulin-stimulated glucose
transport and metabolism.

PMID: 3176815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Am Heart J. 1988 Oct;116(4):979-88.

Cardiac imaging and myocardial kinetics of technetium-tertiary butyl-isonitrile
during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia.

Okada RD(1), Williams SJ, Glover DK, Dragatokis D.

Author information: 
(1)Saint Francis Hospital Medical Research Institute, Cardiology of Tulsa, OK 74136.

To determine the myocardial kinetics of technetium-tertiary-butyl-isonitrile
(Tc-TBI) during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, the circumflex coronary arteries 
(LCX) of 15 dogs were partially occluded. Dipyridamole was then infused
intravenously over 4 minutes, creating hyperemic flows in the anterior descending
(LAD) coronary system. Tc-TBI was administered, then LAD and LCX regional
myocardial Tc-TBI activities were continuously monitored with miniature detectors
and gamma camera imaging over 3 hours. Microsphere-determined regional myocardial
blood flows demonstrated an LCX/LAD flow ratio of 0.81 +/- 0.21 at rest and 0.45 
+/- 0.24 (SD) during dipyridamole infusion. Three-hour fractional Tc-TBI
clearance rates were minimal and were equal in the LAD (0.14 +/- 0.11) and LCX
(0.13 +/- 0.12) zones (p = ns). Excellent gamma camera images, demonstrating the 
LCX defect, were obtained in all dogs. The correlation coefficient was 0.98 for
regional myocardial blood flow vs initial Tc-TBI distribution.IN CONCLUSION: (1) 
Dipyridamole vasodilation unmasked coronary stenoses despite no flow disparities 
at rest. (2) The initial distribution of Tc-TBI is proportional to regional
myocardial blood flow. (3) There is minimal washout and no redistribution into
the initial defect over time, and thus image quality is stable over time. (4)
Tc-TBI myocardial kinetics may be applicable to closely related agents currently 
being developed.

PMID: 3177197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):538-40.

Thrombophlebitis and disturbed hemostasis following administration of intravenous
hematin in normal volunteers.

Simionatto CS(1), Cabal R, Jones RL, Galbraith RA.

Author information: 
(1)Rockefeller University Hospital, New York, New York 10021.

PURPOSE: Acute porphyria episodes are routinely treated with hematin, but side
effects, including disturbances of hemostasis and peripheral thrombophlebitis,
are associated with the compound's use. Thrombophlebitis is particularly
troublesome in patients who require repeated administration of hematin, and may
eventually lead to the placement of central venous lines or implantation of
indwelling venous access ports. We undertook this study to determine whether only
patients with porphyria experienced peripheral thrombophlebitis and disturbed
hemostasis following administration of hematin, or if this was a general
phenomenon that could also be observed in normal volunteers.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Hematin was administered intravenously in the doses
customarily used in therapy of acute porphyria crises (4 mg/kg body weight) to
nine normal male volunteers, who were screened by history, physical examination, 
routine blood cell counts, urinalysis, biochemical screening profile, and
coagulation tests. Hemostasis tests were performed in each subject, and hematin
concentrations were determined.
RESULTS: Within the first 24 hours, the activated partial thromboplastin time was
prolonged in all subjects (mean of 25 percent), the prothrombin time was
increased in eight subjects (mean of 20 percent), and the thrombin time in five
subjects rose (mean of 15 percent), whereas the concentration of circulating
platelets decreased in three subjects (mean of 20 percent). In four subjects (45 
percent), thrombophlebitis developed following hematin infusion.
CONCLUSION: Although hematin is frequently effective in the treatment of acute
porphyria crises, it is often associated with abnormalities in coagulation and
these effects also occur in normal volunteers.

PMID: 3177402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):533-7.

Renal excretion of hypoxanthine and xanthine in primary gout.

Puig JG(1), Mateos FA, Jiménez ML, Ramos TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, La Paz University Hospital, Universidad
Autónoma, Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: The renal excretion of uric acid is usually diminished in primary gout
with respect to increased serum urate levels. To determine whether the renal
excretion of uric acid precursors, hypoxanthine and xanthine, is also abnormal in
primary gout, the concentrations of these purines were measured in plasma and
24-hour urine samples in normal subjects, in patients with primary gout and uric 
acid underexcretion, and in patients with enzyme deficiencies that are known to
result in over-production of uric acid.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Three groups of subjects were studied: Group I consisted of
10 ambulatory healthy normal men; Group II consisted of 15 patients in whom
primary gout was diagnosed; and Group III consisted of 10 patients with various
enzyme defects known to produce an excessive synthesis of uric acid. In each
subject, plasma and 24-hour urinary uric acid, hypoxanthine, xanthine, and
creatinine concentrations were measured and the mean of three consecutive
determinations was used. The fractional excretion of purine compounds was
calculated from a formula. Hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase, adenine
phosphoribosyltransferase, and hemoglobin were also measured in each subject.
RESULTS: Plasma hypoxanthine and xanthine were increased in the two groups of
patients compared with the control subjects. Urinary hypoxanthine and xanthine
levels were reduced in gouty patients compared with control subjects, whereas
levels were increased in patients with uric acid overproduction. A positive
correlation was found between the renal clearances of uric acid, hypoxanthine,
and xanthine.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that the renal excretion of hypoxanthine and
xanthine is severely impaired in most patients with primary gout.

PMID: 3177401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):528-32.

Assessing the value of identifying the presence of malignant disease in human
plasma by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Buchthal SD(1), Hardy MA, Brown TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Medical Spectroscopy, Fox Chase
Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to assess the ability of the average linewidths
of the methyl and methylene resonances from the proton nuclear magnetic resonance
(NMR) spectrum of human plasma to distinguish reliably between a normal,
apparently healthy population and untreated patients with cancer as was suggested
by a recent report (Fossel et al, N Engl J Med 1986; 315: 1369-1376). In that
report, the absence of overlap between the two populations suggested that the
technique had great diagnostic potential.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Blood samples were collected from healthy hospital
personnel and patients with biopsy proven cancer who had not yet undergone
chemotherapy or radiotherapy. NMR measurements were obtained on decanted plasma
samples. In addition, to determine whether the distributions obtained were
sensitive to experimental conditions, we varied a number of experimental
parameters. These were storage temperature, observation temperature, NMR
observation technique, and magnetic field inhomogeneity.
RESULTS: In our hands, the distributions substantially overlapped, although the
means of the average linewidths of the normal (35.0 +/- 5.3 Hz, range = 24 to 48 
Hz) and patient (31.6 +/- 5.7 Hz, range 20 to 44 Hz) populations were
significantly different, delta = 3.4 Hz, p = 0.023. The degree of overlap
corresponded to 74 percent sensitivity and 59 percent specificity. The
distributions were independent of the experimental conditions except for
observation temperature. In this case, there was insufficient difference between 
our experimental conditions and those of Fossel et al (25 degrees C versus 22
degrees C) to explain the difference in results.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that wide variations exist among normal,
apparently healthy persons and emphasize the need for carefully matched control
subjects. We conclude that this measurement is, as of now, unsuitable as a method
for identifying malignant disease.

PMID: 3177400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):525-7.

Induction of theophylline toxicity and inhibition of clearance rates by
ranitidine.

Roy AK(1), Cuda MP, Levine RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York, SUNY-Health Science Center,
Syracuse 13210.

PURPOSE: Theophylline is metabolized by the hepatic microsomal oxidase system, as
is ranitidine, although the latter has a much lower affinity for the system. The 
incidence of theophylline toxicity is rare when the two drugs are administered
simultaneously. We observed the development of clinical and chemical toxicity in 
three elderly patients receiving oral theophylline therapy for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease after the administration of ranitidine therapy for 
peptic ulcer disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
who had been receiving theophylline for prolonged periods of time were studied.
Two patients presented with complaints of epigastric pain, which was attributed
to acid-peptic disease; the other patient presented with hematemesis, which was
shown to be due to gastric and duodenal ulcers. Ranitidine was administered for
treatment of acid-peptic disease. Theophylline clearance rates were determined
before, during, and after ranitidine treatment. When symptoms of theophylline
toxicity developed, the dose of theophylline was either stopped or reduced.
Subsequently, patients were readministered their usual dose of theophylline.
RESULTS: The effect of simultaneous administration of both drugs resulted in
similar reductions in theophylline clearance rates. Serum theophylline levels
returned to pretreatment values after cessation of ranitidine treatment. In one
patient, rechallenge with ranitidine during steady-state theophylline treatment
resulted in recurrence of clinical and chemical theophylline toxicity.
CONCLUSION: These observations suggest that treatment with ranitidine may cause
clinically apparent interactions with theophylline since both drugs are
metabolized by the same cytochrome P-450 isozymes.

PMID: 3177399  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):513-8.

Serum complement activation in central nervous system disease in Sjögren's
syndrome.

Alexander EL(1), Provost TT, Sanders ME, Frank MM, Joiner KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21239.

PURPOSE: Central nervous system disease and vasculitis are extraglandular
manifestations of Sjögren's syndrome. In our experience, central nervous system
disease develops in approximately 70 percent of patients with Sjögren's syndrome 
and biopsy documented peripheral vasculitis. In order to further investigate the 
pathogenesis of central nervous system disease and its relationship to peripheral
vasculitis in Sjögren's syndrome, we examined sera of patients with Sjögren's
syndrome with and without focal central nervous system involvement for evidence
of terminal complement pathway activation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were classified as having active focal central
nervous system involvement only when they had focal neurologic deficits on
physical examination, plus at least one abnormal neurodiagnostic test result. Two
thirds of these patients also had cognitive or psychiatric dysfunction. Patients 
were classified as having peripheral vasculitis if they had clinical and
histopathologic documentation of vascular inflammation. Serum SC5b-9 was measured
by a sensitive enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay. Total hemolytic complement
assay, measurement of serum C3 and C4 by radial immunodiffusion, and
determination of immune complexes were performed.
RESULTS: Fluid-phase terminal complement complexes (SC5b-9) were detected in the 
sera of 25 of 30 (83 percent) patients with focal central nervous system
involvement, but in only seven of 21 (33 percent) patients with Sjögren's
syndrome without focal central nervous system disease (p = 0.00084 by Yates'
chi-square analysis). Four of these seven patients without focal central nervous 
system disease, but who had serum SC5b-9, had psychiatric or cognitive
dysfunction. SC5b-9 was also detected in sera from 14 of 15 (93 percent) patients
with active biopsy-documented peripheral vasculitis in contrast to 18 of 36 (50
percent) patients without clinical evidence of peripheral vasculitis (p =
0.0094). Serum SC5b-9 was a more sensitive indicator of complement activation
than circulating immune complex or complement assays.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that terminal complement activation may
participate in the pathophysiology of both central nervous system and peripheral 
vasculitis in Sjögren's syndrome. Serum SC5b-9 appears to be a useful diagnostic 
indicator of vascular inflammation in Sjögren's syndrome and appears to identify 
those patients at risk for central nervous system complications.

PMID: 3177398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):499-506.

Diagnosis of nosocomial bacterial pneumonia in intubated patients undergoing
ventilation: comparison of the usefulness of bronchoalveolar lavage and the
protected specimen brush.

Chastre J(1), Fagon JY, Soler P, Bornet M, Domart Y, Trouillet JL, Gibert C,
Hance AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Réanimation Médicale, Hôpital Bichat, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Am J Med 1989 Feb;86(2):258.

PURPOSE: To compare the usefulness of specimens recovered using a protected
specimen brush and those recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage in the diagnosis of 
nosocomial pneumonia occurring in intubated patients undergoing ventilation, we
performed both procedures in patients suspected of having pneumonia because of
the presence of a new pulmonary infiltrate and purulent tracheal secretions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-one patients (16 men and five women) with an average
age of 57 +/- 12 years were studied. They had been receiving mechanical
ventilation for 8 +/- 6 days before inclusion in the trial. The clinical
suspicion for nosocomial bacterial pneumonia was high in these patients.
Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed in each patient. Bronchoscopy specimens
were obtained by a protected specimen brush and by bronchoalveolar lavage, and
were then processed for quantitative bacterial and fungal culture using standard 
methods. Total cell counts were performed on an aliquot of resuspended original
lavage fluid. Differential cell counts were made on at least 500 cells. In
addition, 300 cells were examined at high-power magnification and the percentage 
of cells containing intracellular microorganisms and the average number of
extracellular organisms per oil-immersion field were determined.
RESULTS: Quantitative culture of specimens recovered using the protected specimen
brush were positive (more than 10(3) colony-forming units [cfu]/ml) in five of
five patients with subsequently confirmed pneumonia, and negative (less than
10(3) cfu/ml) in 13 of 13 patients without bacterial pneumonia, but results were 
not available until 24 to 48 hours after the procedure. Quantification of
intracellular organisms in cells recovered by lavage was also useful in
distinguishing patients with pneumonia (more than 25 percent of cells with
intracellular organisms in five of five patients) from those without pneumonia
(less than 15 percent of cells with intracellular organisms in all cases), and
results were available immediately. In contrast, quantitative culture of lavage
fluid and differential cell counts were of little value in identifying infected
patients.
CONCLUSION: The protected specimen brush and microscopic identification of
intracellular organisms in cells recovered by lavage yield useful and
complementary information, and together permit rapid and specific treatment of
most patients with nosocomial pneumonia.

PMID: 3177397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):495-8.

Prospective study of infections in indwelling central venous catheters using
quantitative blood cultures.

Benezra D(1), Kiehn TE, Gold JW, Brown AE, Turnbull AD, Armstrong D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York 10021.

PURPOSE: Surgically implanted central venous catheters are widely used in cancer 
patients in whom there is a need for prolonged venous access for chemotherapy,
parenteral nutrition, antibiotics, and blood sampling. This study evaluated
catheter infectious complications, including catheter-related sepsis, exit site
infection, and tunnel infection. Specifically, an evaluation of the incidence,
type, and response to treatment of indwelling catheter infections was performed, 
and conditions under which the catheter should be removed were delineated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During the year of this study, 488 central venous catheters
were implanted. Records were maintained on demographic variables, date of
catheter implantation, surgeon, white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil
count, and underlying diagnosis. Blood for both aerobic and anaerobic culture was
collected from each patient. For patients in whom infection developed, clinical
features, white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, and microbiologic
data were noted, as were the clinical course and response to treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 142 episodes of infectious complications were documented.
There were 88 episodes of catheter-related sepsis, and 33 of 54 evaluable
episodes (61 percent) were successfully treated with antibiotics. There were 34
episodes of exit site infection, and 20 of the 29 evaluable episodes (69 percent)
were successfully treated with antibiotics and local care. Of the 20 tunnel
infections, only five (25 percent) were successfully treated with antibiotics,
and the other 15 required catheter removal for cure. Twelve of the 15 cases
requiring catheter removal were caused by Pseudomonas species.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of these results, compulsory removal of the catheter is 
not required in cases of catheter-related sepsis. Similarly, exit site infections
can often be cured by means of antibiotics and local care. However, catheter
removal is required to achieve cure in most tunnel infections, particularly if
Pseudomonas species are cultured from the exit sites of patients with tunnel
infection.

PMID: 3177396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):490-4.

Gangrenous cellulitis associated with gram-negative bacilli in pancytopenic
patients: dilemma with respect to effective therapy.

Kusne S(1), Eibling DE, Yu VL, Fitz D, Johnson JT, Kahl LE, Ellis LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

INTRODUCTION: Gangrenous (necrotizing) cellulitis is a progressive bacterial
infection of skin and soft tissue; the infection can spread into subcutaneous
tissue with involvement of superficial and deep fascia (necrotizing fasciitis).
We describe two pancytopenic patients with polymicrobial gram-negative bacteremia
and fulminating gangrenous cellulitis.
CASE REPORTS: Pseudomonas aeruginosa was isolated from a localized hemorrhagic
area of the face in one patient. The chronology of infection in these two
patients is documented in a series of dramatic color photographs. Despite
appropriate antibiotic therapy, the infections progressed relentlessly and both
patients died.
COMMENTS: We discuss the dilemma of establishing the correct diagnosis prior to
the appearance of the characteristic cutaneous manifestations of hemorrhagic
necrosis and gangrene. Once the diagnosis is established, surgical excision is
universally recommended. Unfortunately, bleeding diatheses in pancytopenic
patients with co-existing coagulation deficiencies pose logistic obstacles in
urgent, real-life situations. The timing and conditions for surgery need to be
elucidated in these patients. An approach to this infection is proposed. The
utility of frozen-section biopsy of the involved tissue and computed tomographic 
scans of the involved area remains to be evaluated.

PMID: 3177395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):472-6.

Human immunodeficiency virus infection in sexually active wives of infected
hemophilic men.

Kim HC(1), Raska K 3rd, Clemow L, Eisele J, Matts L, Saidi P, Raska K Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Medicine and Dentistry, New Jersey-Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick 08903-0019.

PURPOSE: Because of past multiple exposures to contaminated coagulation factor
concentrates, the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection
among adult hemophilic men in the United States is reported to range from 75 to
90 percent. The risk of HIV transmission through a long-term monogamous
heterosexual contact can be estimated by studying the spouses of hemophilic
subjects since these couples generally do not abuse intravenous drugs, usually
maintain stable monogamous relationships, and are usually free of other risk
factors. Our purpose was to gather data on the risk of heterosexual transmission 
of HIV infection in the context of long-term monogamous relations according to
the duration of HIV antibody seropositivity and of HIV antigenemia in
HIV-infected hemophilic men, and their sexual habits.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Infection with HIV was studied in 14 sexually active
spouses of infected hemophilic men who had been HIV antibody reactive for a mean 
of 46 +/- 23 (SD) months. One half of the hemophilic men studied had overt HIV
antigenemia for a mean duration of 27 +/- 23 (SD) months; six of the men studied 
fulfilled clinical criteria for the diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS). All 14 couples were sexually active in a strictly monogamous
fashion, in marriages of 13.5 +/- 10.5 (SD) years with an average reported
frequency of four sexual encounters per month (range: one to 12). Plasma samples 
of the hemophilic husbands were retrospectively analyzed for HIV and hepatitis B 
virus markers. Blood samples were obtained from female spouses on at least two
occasions, six months apart. Comprehensive questionnaires regarding sexual habits
and other risk factors were filled out by each couple; during this interview, the
couple was counseled about safe sexual practices. None of the couples studied
used condoms prior to January 1986.
RESULTS: Antibodies to HIV developed in only one of the 14 wives. At the time
when this seroconversion was detected, her husband, in whom AIDS developed, had
been reactive for HIV antibody for 49 months, and showed positive findings for
HIV antigen for 26 months. No additional risk factors were identified for this
couple. The infected female spouse, however, has a 14-year history of multiple
sclerosis, and had been treated with immunosuppressant intermittently. Despite a 
significantly reduced number of CD4 lymphocytes, she has remained clinically
asymptomatic for 17 months since seroconversion. HIV antibodies did not develop
in any of the 13 remaining wives, despite the frequent practice of oral sex by
six couples and reports of occasional anal intercourse by another
couple.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3177394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):466-71.

Prevalence and recognition of alcohol abuse in a primary care population.

Cleary PD(1), Miller M, Bush BT, Warburg MM, Delbanco TL, Aronson MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Health Policy, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence, physician
recognition, and treatment of alcohol abuse among patients of 19 senior medical
residents practicing in a hospital-based, primary care setting.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Interviews of 242 outpatients were conducted, and alcohol
abuse and dependence, as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders, third edition (DSM-III), were determined using the Diagnostic
Interview Schedule.
RESULTS: Twenty percent of the patients studied had abused or were dependent on
alcohol at some time in their lives and 5 percent reported abuse or dependence
within the last year. Of the techniques studied, a short screening questionnaire 
(Short Michigan Alcohol Screening Test [SMAST]) was the most accurate way of
identifying patients who abused alcohol, and physician assessments were more
accurate than laboratory tests. Although the physicians were aware of serious
alcohol problems among 77 percent of their patients who met DSM-III criteria for 
alcohol abuse or dependence in the previous year, they identified only 36 percent
of their patients with less serious problems or past alcohol abuse. They had only
discussed alcohol abuse with 67 percent of the patients they identified as
alcohol abusers.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that a short screening questionnaire (SMAST) is an
accurate means of identifying alcohol abuse. Despite the recognition of serious
alcohol problems by the physicians, the problem is not addressed routinely even
among patients that are recognized as alcoholic.

PMID: 3177393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):519-24.

A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of verapamil and metoprolol 
in treatment of multifocal atrial tachycardia.

Arsura E(1), Lefkin AS, Scher DL, Solar M, Tessler S.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, Health Science Center, Brooklyn.

Erratum in
    Am J Med 1989 Jan;86(1):142.

PURPOSE: Multifocal atrial tachycardia is a difficult arrhythmia to treat.
Patients not showing a response to the correction of predisposing conditions
present a therapeutic dilemma. To assess the efficacy of two agents reported to
be effective in this condition, verapamil, metoprolol, or placebo was given
intravenously in a randomized, double-blind trial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirteen patients meeting inclusionary criteria were
enrolled. Therapeutic response was defined as conversion to sinus rhythm, a
decline in the ventricular rate of 15 percent or more [corrected], or a
ventricular rate of less than 100 beats/minute. Four male and nine female
patients having a mean age (+/- SD) of 81.9 +/- 14.2 years were enrolled.
Automated serum chemistries, complete blood cell count with differential,
arterial blood gas values, and serum digoxin and theophylline levels were
determined and a 12-lead electrocardiogram was obtained at the start of the
trial. Following the completion of each phase of the study, a repeat physical
examination was performed, and arterial blood gas values and an electrocardiogram
were obtained. The trial was designed to run for two days.
RESULTS: Two of 10 (20 percent), four of nine (44 percent), and eight of nine (89
percent) showed a response to placebo, verapamil, or metoprolol, respectively.
Mean slowing of ventricular rate was 3.4, 7.3, and 24.5 percent for placebo,
verapamil, and metoprolol, respectively (p less than 0.01 for metoprolol versus
placebo). Five patients who showed a response to metoprolol had failed to have a 
response to verapamil.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that metoprolol appears to be more effective than
verapamil in treating multifocal atrial tachycardia. However, careful patient
selection is necessary in its use.

PMID: 3052051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):507-12.

Effect of various therapeutic approaches on plasma potassium and major regulating
factors in terminal renal failure.

Blumberg A(1), Weidmann P, Shaw S, Gnädinger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Kantonsspital, Aarau, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The development of life-threatening hyperkalemia poses a risk for
patients with chronic preterminal renal failure. Various therapeutic options have
been suggested for hyperkalemic emergencies in these patients; to date, however, 
no study has evaluated the relative efficacies of these measures in the presence 
of renal failure. Our goal was to examine the acute effects of a variety of
therapeutic approaches, as well as those of hemodialysis, on plasma potassium
levels in a hemodialysis population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten patients with terminal renal failure undergoing
maintenance hemodialysis were enrolled in the study. Blood gas parameters and
plasma sodium, potassium, glucose, osmolality, renin, aldosterone, epinephrine,
norepinephrine, dopamine, and insulin were measured before, during, and after
60-minute infusions of bicarbonate, epinephrine, and insulin in glucose, and
before, during, and after performance of regular hemodialysis for one hour.
RESULTS: Hypertonic as well as isotonic intravenous bicarbonate (2 to 4
mmol/minute) induced a marked rise in plasma bicarbonate and pH, but failed to
lower the plasma potassium level (5.66 versus 5.83 mmol/liter before and after). 
Epinephrine, 0.05 microgram/kg/minute administered intravenously, decreased
plasma potassium only slightly from 5.57 to 5.25 mmol/liter, and five patients
showed no decline. On the other hand, insulin in glucose, 5 mU/kg/minute
intravenously, effectively lowered plasma potassium levels from 5.62 to 4.70
mmol/liter, and hemodialysis induced the most rapid decline from 5.63 to 4.29
mmol/liter. Plasma aldosterone was elevated before treatment; it correlated with 
plasma potassium and dropped during intravenous bicarbonate administration or
hemodialysis. Pretreatment plasma renin activity, insulin, epinephrine,
norepinephrine, and dopamine levels were generally normal.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that in patients with terminal renal failure undergoing
maintenance hemodialysis, intravenous bicarbonate is ineffective in lowering
plasma potassium rapidly, and epinephrine is effective in only half the patients,
whereas insulin in glucose is a fast and reliable form of therapy for
hyperkalemic emergencies. Plasma aldosterone levels are appropriate in
relationship to plasma potassium levels, and levels of other
potassium-influencing hormones are generally normal.

PMID: 3052050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):481-9.

Oral fluconazole as suppressive therapy of disseminated cryptococcosis in
patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

Sugar AM(1), Saunders C.

Author information: 
(1)Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, Boston University Medical Center,
Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: Because of the increasing numbers of patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who will require treatment for cryptococcosis
and because of the problems associated with long-term administration of
intravenous amphotericin B, an alternative therapeutic approach in the form of an
efficacious and easily administered oral antifungal drug would be of great
benefit. Fluconazole, a new triazole antifungal agent, represents such an
alternative. We therefore conducted an open, non-randomized trial of oral
fluconazole as maintenance suppressive therapy of disseminated cryptococcosis in 
patients with AIDS.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with AIDS, 19 of whom had cryptococcal
meningitis, were studied. Patients were followed for up to 21 months. All
patients received amphotericin B as primary therapy, from 20 to 257 days prior to
entry (500 to 5,080 mg total dose). Eight also received flucytosine. After
administration of amphotericin B for acute disseminated cryptococcosis, and prior
to initiation of fluconazole therapy, Cryptococcus neoformans was isolated from
the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in two patients and from the blood in one patient. 
Fluconazole was given once daily, in doses of 50 to 200 mg/day.
RESULTS: Following initiation of fluconazole, results of CSF and blood cultures
continued to be negative, except for the CSF culture in one patient who had a
relapse in the 32nd week of therapy. Fluconazole therapy has been successfully
continued in nine patients, for a median of 11 months (nine to 21 months). Seven 
patients died; five had no evidence of active cryptococcosis at the time of
death. Two patients had a relapse, although the CSF culture showed growth of the 
fungus in only one patient. One patient was lost to follow-up after five months
of therapy and one was unevaluable. Fluconazole had to be discontinued in only
one patient in whom thrombocytopenia developed, and then resolved when the drug
was stopped.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that oral fluconazole represents a significant advance in
the management of cryptococcal meningitis and should be useful in the long-term
suppressive therapy of this opportunistic infection in patients with AIDS.

PMID: 2845779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Am J Med. 1988 Oct;85(4):477-80.

Oral fluconazole therapy for patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and
cryptococcosis: experience with 22 patients.

Stern JJ(1), Hartman BJ, Sharkey P, Rowland V, Squires KE, Murray HW, Graybill
JR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Cornell University Medical College, New York,
New York.

PURPOSE: Cryptococcus neoformans causes infections in up to 10 percent of
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Nearly 50 percent of
AIDS patients with previously treated cryptococcal meningitis will experience a
relapse within six months. To reduce the likelihood of relapse, a maintenance
regimen of amphotericin B is often administered weekly. However, the drug's
intravenous route of administration and considerable toxicity have led to a
search for alternative antifungal agents. In this report, we document our
experience with fluconazole, a new oral triazole antifungal agent.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-two patients with AIDS and various forms of
cryptococcosis were treated in an open-label study with 50 to 400 mg/day of
fluconazole. The following laboratory studies were done on a monthly basis:
complete blood cell count, liver function tests, serum creatinine level, serum
cryptococcal antigen level, and serum fluconazole level. Lumbar puncture was
performed in patients with meningitis every four to eight weeks to evaluate
cerebrospinal fluid cryptococcal antigen, India ink preparation findings, fungal 
culture, fluconazole level, and protein, glucose, and cell count.
RESULTS: Of seven patients with active culture-positive infections, four showed
clinical and microbiologic responses (three of four with meningitis, one of three
with extraneural cryptococcosis). Fifteen patients who had already undergone
successful amphotericin B therapy for either meningitis (n = 14) or pneumonia (n 
= 1) received fluconazole as prophylaxis against relapse. Fourteen patients
remained free of infection during 11 to 64 weeks of suppressive therapy; one
patient with meningitis experienced relapse after 26 weeks of treatment. Reverse 
reactions were limited to increases in hepatic enzyme levels in four patients.
CONCLUSION: These results appear sufficiently encouraging to warrant further
trials of this oral agent in the suppression of chronic cryptococcosis and
perhaps in the treatment of acute infection.

PMID: 2845778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Anaesthesist. 1988 Oct;37(10):625-30.

[The electroencephalogram and somatosensory evoked potentials following
intravenous administration of 0.5 mg/Kg ketamine].

[Article in German]

Kochs E(1), Blanc I, Werner C, Schulte am Esch J.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Anaesthesiologie, Universität-Krankenhaus Eppendorf, Hamburg.

Because of its analgesic potency without affecting consciousness, low-dose
ketamine (0.5 mg/kg) has been advocated for traumatized patients in order to
ensure the possibility of neurological assessment. This study describes the
effects of 0.5 mg/kg ketamine on spontaneous and evoked brain electrical
activity.METHODS: Nine unpremedicated, healthy volunteers aged 22-35 years and
free of CNS-active drugs took part in the study. The EEG was recorded from C3P3, 
C4P4, and vertex versus linked earlobes (Cz/A1-A2) (bandpass: 1-45 Hz). For
artefact control the electro-oculogram (EOG) was recorded from supra- and
infraorbital electrodes with the same filter settings. EEG and EOG were stored on
magnetic tape and were digitized off-line (sampling rate: 100/s) followed by
Fourier transformation (epoch-length: 5.2 s). Somatosensory evoked potentials
(SEP) were elicited by constant current pulses at the median nerve near the
wrist. Recording sites were at the cervical spine (Cv6), the ipsi- and
contralateral somatosensory projection area, and the vertex (Cz) vs a frontal
reference (Fz). Bandpass: 10-2000 Hz, stimulation frequency: 4 Hz, twofold motor 
threshold, analysis time: 100 ms. Electrocardiogram, blood pressure, and arterial
oxygen saturation (pulse oximeter) were monitored continuously. After an
adaptation session of 30-45 min, 0.5 mg ketamine was administered intravenously. 
EEG and SEP were recorded for the following 45-60 min. Data were subjected to
analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Scheffé-test if appropriate (P less than or
equal to 0.05).
RESULTS: All subjects lost consciousness within 45-110 s (mean: 70 s) after
administration of ketamine. Mean blood pressure levels increased by about 20% and
heart rate by about 10% after 5-10 min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3213937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Anaesthesist. 1988 Oct;37(10):631-5.

[The effect of neuroleptics and neuroleptic/analgesic combinations on the
sensitivity to seizures in mice].

[Article in German]

Hashem A(1), Frey HH.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

Combinations of neuroleptic and morphine-like analgesic drugs are used alone for 
minor surgery or as anesthetic premedication. While morphine-like analgesics
given in the therapeutic dose range show anticonvulsant properties, there is
evidence indicating that neuroleptics are rather proconvulsant. This study was
performed to investigate the influence of the most widely used combinations
pethidine/promethazine and fentanyl/droperidol on seizure susceptibility.METHODS:
Thresholds for convulsions induced by electroshock and pentetrazole infusion were
used as models for seizure susceptibility. The drugs tested were injected s.c.
20-30 min before determination of the seizure threshold.
RESULTS: Pethidine/promethazine and fentanyl/droperidol reduced the
susceptibility to seizures induced by electroshock. Promethazine and droperidol
alone elevated the threshold only at the highest doses used (2 mg/kg and 2.5
mg/kg respectively). Promethazine, whether given alone or in combination with
pethidine, showed no effect on the threshold for pentetrazole-induced
convulsions. Droperidol alone lowered the threshold for pentetrazole-induced
clonic convulsions only at the lowest dose used (0.625 mg/kg), but lowered that
for tonic convulsions at all doses studied (0.625, 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg). The
combination of fentanyl and droperidol lowered the threshold for both clonic and 
tonic convulsions at the two lower doses (12.5 micrograms/kg fentanyl + 0.625
mg/kg droperidol and 25 micrograms/kg fentanyl + 1.25 mg/kg droperidol). Only the
highest dose studied (50 micrograms/kg fentanyl + 2.5 mg/kg droperidol) showed no
significant effect.
CONCLUSION: Pethidine and fentanyl show anticonvulsant properties in mice, but it
is evident from our results that there is some interaction between their
combinations with neuroleptics and seizure susceptibility. This is more
pronounced with the combination fentanyl/droperidol in the model of
pentetrazole-induced convulsions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2905589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Anaesthesist. 1988 Oct;37(10):620-4.

[Clinical experiences with alfentanil for balanced anesthesia in upper abdominal 
surgery].

[Article in German]

Hartung HJ.

Author information: 
Institut für Anaesthesiologie und Reanimation, Universität Heidelberg.

METHODS: Three randomized groups of patients scheduled for upper abdominal
surgery received either an initial large bolus of alfentanil combined with low
concentrations of isoflurane (group 1), an initial small bolus of alfentanil
combined with 50% higher isoflurane concentrations than group 1 (group 2), or
isoflurane without opioids (group 3). Blood pressure, heart rates, and anesthetic
consumptions were measured and recorded, as were side-effects such as thoracic
rigidity, bradycardia, and nausea, and postoperative recovery time.
RESULTS: The mean isoflurane concentration in group 1 was 0.8 vol% combined with 
an average alfentanil bolus of 6.8 mg and three additional doses of 1.1-1.4 mg.
Group 2 received a mean isoflurane concentration of 1.3 vol% combined with four
additional doses of 1.3-1.7 mg alfentanil. Group 3 needed an average isoflurane
concentration of 1.5 vol%. Side effects of alfentanil were prevented by atropine 
administration; severe complications were not observed. Postoperative recovery
time showed significant differences between groups 1 und 2: group 1 patients were
awake within 7.5 min and group 2 within 17 min after the operation. No
respiratory depression was detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Alfentanil combined with volatile anesthetics produced no severe
side-effects in patients scheduled for upper abdominal operations. The
pharmacokinetics of alfentanil are advantageous with regard to the postoperative 
period.

PMID: 2905588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):554-6.

The frequency of the chronic fatigue syndrome in patients with symptoms of
persistent fatigue.

Manu P(1), Lane TJ, Matthews DA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Dec 15;109(12):997.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of the chronic fatigue syndrome among
patients with symptoms of fatigue.
DESIGN: Prospective, cohort study.
SETTING: Referral clinic, based in a primary care general internal medicine
faculty practice of a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 135 patients (53 men, 82 women) with 6 months or 
more of debilitating fatigue.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients had a complete history taken, had a physical
examination and a comprehensive battery of blood tests, and were given the
Diagnostic Interview Schedule of the National Institute of Mental Health, a
highly-structured 260-item instrument designed to enable accurate psychiatric
diagnoses. Other diagnostic studies (for example, sleep studies and
electroencephalography) were ordered if necessary for individual patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Six of the one hundred thirty-five patients met
criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome (95% CI, 0 to 10). Ninety-one (67%)
patients (CI, 56 to 78) had clinically active psychiatric disorders and 4 (3%)
patients (CI, 0 to 8) had medical disorders that were considered a major cause of
their fatigue. Thirty-four (25%) patients (CI, 14 to 36) had insufficient
symptoms or objective findings of the chronic fatigue syndrome.
CONCLUSION: The chronic fatigue syndrome is rare among patients with symptoms of 
persistent fatigue. Most of these patients have psychiatric disorders.

PMID: 3421564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):547-53.

Adrenal localization in the adrenocorticotropic hormone-independent Cushing
syndrome.

Fig LM(1), Gross MD, Shapiro B, Ehrmann DA, Freitas JE, Schteingart DE, Glazer
GM, Francis IR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of 131I-6-beta-iodomethylnorcholesterol
scintigraphy in the adrenocorticotropic hormone-independent Cushing syndrome and 
to compare this with computed tomography.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of case series from 1977 to 1987.
SETTING: Referral to the Division of Nuclear Medicine at a tertiary-care
university medical center.
PATIENTS: Twenty-four patients with a pathologically-confirmed diagnosis of the
adrenocorticotropic hormone-independent Cushing syndrome had
131I-6-beta-iodomethylnorcholesterol scintigraphy and, in most cases, computed
tomography.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Using 131I-6-beta-iodomethylnorcholesterol
scintigraphy, adenomas were accurately seen as focal, unilateral tracer uptake in
14 of 14 patients. In carcinoma, the classic scintigraphic pattern of bilateral
nonvisualization was observed in 3 of 4 patients, with ipsilateral uptake of
tracer in 1 patient with a histologically well-differentiated malignancy.
Computed tomography done during the same interval depicted abnormal adrenals in
all cases of adenoma and carcinoma. In cortical nodular hyperplasia, however,
computed tomography identified abnormal pairs of adrenals in only one of four
cases studied, whereas scintigraphy showed typical patterns of bilateral
increased uptake in all of the cases.
CONCLUSION: 131I-6-beta-iodomethylnorcholesterol scintigraphy accurately shows
the location and nature of adrenal dysfunction in the adrenocorticotropic
hormone-independent Cushing syndrome and may be particularly useful in
identifying the bilateral adrenal involvement in cortical nodular hyperplasia.

PMID: 3421563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):535-9.

Endomyocardial biopsy in patients with unexplained congestive heart failure.

Chow LC(1), Dittrich HC, Shabetai R.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, Medical Center.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of myocarditis proved by biopsy
findings in patients presenting with unexplained congestive heart failure.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: General medical services of a Veterans Administration and university
hospital.
PATIENTS: Ninety consecutive patients presenting with unexplained congestive
heart failure who had endomyocardial biopsy as a part of their diagnostic
evaluation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Classification of biopsy findings according to a
recently proposed scheme for histologic diagnosis of myocarditis (Dallas
criteria) showed myocarditis in only 4 of 90 (4.4%) patients (95% CI, 0.2 to
8.6), although two thirds of the patients had symptoms of congestive heart
failure for less than 3 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of myocarditis proved by endomyocardial biopsy
findings is low in patients presenting with unexplained congestive heart failure 
and raises questions concerning the need for this procedure in this patient
group.

PMID: 3421562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):529-34.

Automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillators and survival of patients with
left ventricular dysfunction and malignant ventricular arrhythmias.

Tchou PJ(1), Kadri N, Anderson J, Caceres JA, Jazayeri M, Akhtar M.

Author information: 
(1)Sinai Samaritan Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess survival after insertion of automatic implantable
cardioverter defibrillators in high-risk patients who have malignant ventricular 
arrhythmias and left ventricular dysfunction.
DESIGN: Actual survival time compared with arrhythmia-free time in a single group
of patients.
SETTING: Inpatient services of a tertiary referral center and outpatient
follow-up.
PATIENTS: Seventy consecutive patients with clinical sustained ventricular
tachycardia or fibrillation whose arrhythmia could not be controlled by
medication as determined by programmed electrical stimulation, and who had an
automatic cardioverter defibrillator implanted.
INTERVENTION: All patients received an implantable defibrillator.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Two-year survival was 93.4% (95% CI, 87 to 99.8)
and projected survival based on recurrence of malignant arrhythmias was 60.3%
(CI, 47.3 to 73.3; P less than 0.001). In the 25 patients with left ventricular
ejection fraction less than 30%, actual survival was 86.7% (CI, 72.3 to 91.1) and
projected survival was 56.9% (CI, 35.9 to 77.9; P = 0.025). Projected survival
percentages are similar to survival figures reported in the literature for such
high-risk patients. There was only one sudden death; the remaining deaths were
not arrhythmic in nature. Of the 65 patients who were alive at the end of
follow-up, 13 were in New York Heart Association Class I; 44, Class II; 5, Class 
III; and 3, Class IV.
CONCLUSIONS: The automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator is probably
highly effective in preventing arrhythmic mortality even in high-risk patients.
Such treatment does not appear to significantly impair a patient's functional
status.

PMID: 3262325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):557-69.

NIH conference. Cystinosis: progress in a prototypic disease.

Gahl WA, Thoene JG, Schneider JA, O'Regan S, Kaiser-Kupfer MI, Kuwabara T.

OBJECTIVE: To review the history, basic defect, pathogenesis, clinical
manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment of nephropathic cystinosis.
DESIGN: Lysosomal membrane transport studies, clinical reports, and a
historically controlled 7-year trial of oral cysteamine therapy.
SETTING: University centers in the United States and Canada.
PATIENTS: One hundred forty-eight children, aged 0 to 12, with nephropathic
cystinosis before renal transplant, who had renal tubular Fanconi syndrome,
failure to grow, corneal cystine crystals, and elevated leukocyte cystine; 34
patients, aged 9 to 29, after transplant, some with visual impairment, corneal
erosions, pancreatic dysfunction, or neurologic deterioration.
INTERVENTION: Before transplant, replacement of renal losses, and treatment with 
oral cysteamine (55 mg/kg body weight.d for 1 to 6 years) and topical cysteamine 
eyedrops (0.1%, 1 drop/h while awake, for 6 months). After transplant, oral
cysteamine and symptomatic treatment of late complications.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Untreated patients reached renal failure at age
10. Oral cysteamine lowered leukocyte cystine over 80%, and in patients before
transplant, improved growth and preserved renal function (mean creatinine
clearance [+/- SE], 0.64 +/- 0.04 mL/s.1.73 m2 [38.5 +/- 2.5 mL/min.1.73 m2] in
the cysteamine group compared with 0.50 +/- 0.03 mL/s.1.73 m2 [29.7 +/- 2.0
mL/min.1.73 m2] in controls; 95% CI for the difference, 1.8 to 15.8). Cysteamine 
eyedrops cleared the corneal crystals of two children less than 2 years old.
CONCLUSIONS: Cystinosis is a lysosomal storage disease due to impaired transport 
of cystine out of lysosomes. In young children, growth can be improved and renal 
deterioration delayed or prevented by oral cysteamine. Nonrenal complications
after transplant might be prevented with long-term oral cysteamine.

PMID: 3048161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Oct 1;109(7):540-6.

Salvage therapy in recurrent germ cell cancer: ifosfamide and cisplatin plus
either vinblastine or etoposide.

Loehrer PJ Sr(1), Lauer R, Roth BJ, Williams SD, Kalasinski LA, Einhorn LH.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Nov 15;109(10):846.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of the addition of ifosfamide to
cisplatin plus etoposide (VIP), or vinblastine (VeIP), in patients with recurrent
germ cell tumors.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, prospective phase II trial.
SETTING: Tertiary referral university hospital.
PATIENTS: Fifty-six of fifty-eight entered patients with measurable and
progressive recurrent germ cell tumors of testicular (46 patients), ovarian (1
patient), and extragonadal (9 patients) origin were evaluable for response after 
not being cured with cisplatin, vinblastine, and etoposide regimens.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were administered cisplatin (20 mg/m2 body surface area
daily for 5 days), ifosfamide (1.2 g daily for 5 days), plus either etoposide (75
mg daily for 5 days) or vinblastine (0.11 mg/kg body weight on days 1 and 2). In 
addition, vigorous intravenous hydration therapy with normal saline (100 to 125
mL/h) was administered during the treatment course. Uroepithelial protective
agents, N-acetylcysteine (orally) or mesna (intravenously), were administered.
Four courses were administered to responding patients every 3 weeks. When
complete excision was feasible, surgical resection of residual tumor was done
approximately 6 to 8 weeks after chemotherapy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twelve of fifty-six evaluable patients had a
complete remission with chemotherapy alone, whereas 8 additional patients were
free of disease after resection of teratoma (3 patients) or carcinoma (5
patients) for a total disease-free rate of 36% (95% CI, 23.4 to 49.6). The 95% CI
median duration of remission for these patients is 34 months (range, 3 to more
than 42; 95% CI, 9 months to infinity), and the median survival for all eligible 
patients is 12.7 months (95% CI, 10 months to 26 months), with 15 of the 20
patients who achieved disease-free status alive 18 to 53 months or more. Nine of 
fifty-eight patients remain free of disease, including 7 patients for 2 years or 
longer. Hematologic and nephrotoxicity were the predominant drug-related
toxicities, with one drug-related death secondary to pneumonia.
CONCLUSIONS: Ifosfamide combination chemotherapy as third-line or greater therapy
can produce durable complete remissions in heavily pretreated patients with
recurrent germ cell tumors.

PMID: 2844110  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Br J Rheumatol. 1988 Oct;27(5):393-5.

The relationship between pelvic, spinal and hip involvement in ankylosing
spondylitis--one disease process or several?

Calin A(1), Elswood J.

Author information: 
(1)Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, Bath.

One hundred and one consecutive patients with ankylosing spondylitis (males 85%) 
were reviewed by radiographic evaluation after a mean disease duration of 21.2
years (mean age at onset 22.9 years). Osteitis pubis occurred in seven cases of
varied duration and severity of disease. Hip involvement (grade 2-4) occurred in 
19%. Their mean age of onset (19.6 years) was younger than for those with normal 
hips (25.1 years; p = 0.003). Lone sacroiliitis (grade 3 and 4) without ascending
spinal disease occurred in 11 patients. The mean age at onset for those with lone
sacroiliitis and marked spinal disease was similar (23.3 and 24.9 years
respectively; NS). By contrast, disease duration was 13.3 and 28.4 years
respectively (p = 0.0007). Five patients (three women) had severe pelvic and
cervical spine disease with normal lumbar spine.IN CONCLUSION: 1. Osteitis pubis 
occurs as an unusual, random event. 2. Hip involvement is an expression of young 
age at onset. 3. Lone sacroiliitis is uncommon and progression to ascending
spinal disease is primarily a function of disease duration. 4. Skip lesions occur
rarely and particularly in women. 5. Sacroiliitis and ascending spinal disease
are part of the same spectrum.

PMID: 3179629  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. CLAO J. 1988 Oct-Dec;14(4):188-9.

Software review: Dioptimum.

Binder PS.

BEST FEATURES: The software screens all preoperative measurements to detect those
likely to be in error. This data screening function is based on statistical
analysis of the distribution of eye measurements within the human population. If 
measurements are input that are far from the average value, the program will
identify those cases with a message on the screen and a large warning sign.
Nevertheless, the program will perform the requested lens power calculations. The
program will also compare measurements between right and left eyes, if both are
entered, and a test is performed on the asymmetry between the eyes. WORST
FEATURES: The lack of a written owner's manual is probably the most glaring
defect of the program, even though most of the important information is present
on a disk. Only users familiar with running software programs will be able to
easily obtain the data. The program can be installed on a hard disk only two
times. For physicians with multiple offices or multiple computers that are not
on-line, this is a significant handicap. HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS: Two floppy disk
drives, 256K RAM and printer, DOS 3.0 or higher are required. One floppy drive
plus a hard drive can also be used. The program will run a TTL monochrome or
color monitor but the type of color monitor is not specified. LIST PRICE: $495
COPY PROTECTION: Yes USER SUPPORT: 800 number available EASE OF USE: Good ON
SCREEN HELP: Yes CONSUMER VALUE: Very expensivePERFORMANCE: Excellent PUBLISHED
BY: Storz Ophthalmics, Inc. 1365 Hamlet Avenue Clearwater, FL 34616
(818)-443-2606 or (800)-237-5906 A defective disk can be returned for replacement
at no charge within 1 year of the date of purchase. Beyond that date, disks can
be replaced at a cost of $10.00. In summary, this is a very well thought out
software program for calculating and printing IOL powers using a
second-generation lens implant power formula. With appropriate written
documentation, the program will become extremely easy to use, even for novices.
Because it is so simple to use, surgeons will continually update their
personalized surgeon factors and patient data in order to provide patients with
the best possible refractive results. A discussion of the use of the Holladay
formula in comparison to other formulas is found in reference 2.

PMID: 3228969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 1988 Oct-Dec;13(4):261-5.

Stability of disodium azodisalicylate (olsalazine) and metabolites in urine and
faeces stored at different temperatures.

van Hogezand RA(1), van Schaik A, van Hees PA, van Tongeren JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Radboud Hospital, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

METHODS: The stability of disodium azodisalicylate, 5-aminosalicylic acid and
acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid dissolved in distilled water and in urine or mixed
with faeces to which HgCl2 was added, was studied at -20 degrees C, 4 degrees C
and room temperature.
RESULTS: In water, no marked differences were found between the three storage
regimens. In urine, disodium azodisalicylate and acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid
were stable, while the 5-ASA concentration decreased when stored at 4 degrees C
and room temperature. In faeces stored during seven days, a marked decrease in
5-aminosalicylic acid concentration to about zero was found when it was kept at 4
degrees C and room temperature. No marked change in the concentration of disodium
azodisalicylate and 5-aminosalicylic acid added to the faeces-HgCl2-mixtures
appeared.

PMID: 3243321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. J Clin Invest. 1988 Oct;82(4):1268-74.

Bone turnover in postmenopausal osteoporosis. Effect of calcitonin treatment.

Civitelli R(1), Gonnelli S, Zacchei F, Bigazzi S, Vattimo A, Avioli LV, Gennari
C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Bone and Mineral Metabolism, Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri
63110.

To investigate the effectiveness of calcitonin treatment of postmenopausal
osteoporosis in relation to bone turnover, we examined 53 postmenopausal
osteoporotic women before and after one year of therapy with salmon calcitonin
(sCT), at the dose of 50 IU every other day. Baseline evaluation revealed that 17
(32%) patients had high turnover (HTOP), and 36 (68%) normal turnover
osteoporosis (NTOP) as assessed by measurement of whole body retention (WBR) of
99mTc-methylene diphosphonate. The two groups did not differ in terms of bone
mineral content (BMC) measured by dual photon absorptiometry at both lumbar spine
and femoral diaphysis. However, HTOP patients had higher levels of serum
osteocalcin (OC) and urinary hydroxyproline excretion (HOP/Cr). Multivariate
regression analysis showed no correlation between parameters of bone turnover
(WBR, OC, HOP/Cr) and both femoral and vertebral bone density; the latter being
negatively correlated only with the years elapsed since menopause (R2 = 0.406).
Treatment with sCT resulted in a significant increase of vertebral BMC in the 53 
patients taken as a whole group (+/- 7%, P less than 0.001). When the results
obtained in HTOP and NTOP were analyzed separately, only those with HTOP showed a
marked increment of spinal BMC (+22%, P less than 0.001), NTOP subjects neither
gained nor lost bone mineral during the study. Femoral BMC decreased in the whole
group after sCT therapy (-3%, P less than 0.003). However, HTOP patients
maintained initial BMC values, whereas those with NTOP lost a significant amount 
of bone during the study period (-5%, P less than 0.001). The increase of
vertebral bone mass was associated with a marked depression of bone turnover
detectable in both subsets of patients and in the whole group.IN CONCLUSION: (a) 
assessment of bone turnover cannot help predict the severity of bone loss in
postmenopausal osteoporosis; (b) calcitonin therapy appears to be particularly
indicated for patients with high-turnover osteoporosis, resulting in a net gain
of bone mineral in the axial skeleton and a slowing of bone loss in the
appendicular bones.

PMCID: PMC442678
PMID: 3262626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. J Pediatr. 1988 Oct;113(4):647-53.

Impact of legal intervention on sexually abused children.

Runyan DK(1), Everson MD, Edelsohn GA, Hunter WM, Coulter ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social and Administrative Medicine, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill School of Medicine 27599.

OBJECTIVE: Examining the psychologic risks of court and related interventions on 
child sexual abuse victims.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study with follow-up at 5 months.
SETTING: Eleven county social service departments in central North Carolina.
SUBJECTS: 100 sexually abused children, ages 6 to 17 years, were recruited from
consecutive referrals by social service departments; 75 completed the study.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Using a structured psychiatric inventory, the Child
Assessment Schedule, we found a high degree of distress at referral. The level of
distress fell by 26% over the next 5 months (p less than 0.001). The 33 children 
not involved in criminal proceedings improved 30%, in comparison with a 17%
improvement in the 22 children waiting for the proceedings (p = 0.042). The 12
children who had testified in juvenile court improved 42% on the Anxiety
subscale, in comparison with a 17% improvement in all other subjects (p less than
0.01). With mathematical modeling that controlled for the factors of vaginal or
anal penetration, the relationship to the perpetrator, an estimate of verbal IQ, 
duration of abuse, and whether counseling was received, it was estimated that
children waiting for court proceedings at the follow-up examination were only one
twelfth as likely to have improved by one standard deviation on the Depression
subscale (p less than 0.05). A second model revealed that children who testified 
in juvenile court were 20.11 times more likely to improve by one standard
deviation on the CAS Anxiety subscale (p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Testimony in juvenile court may be beneficial for the child, whereas
protracted criminal proceedings may have an adverse effect on the mental health
of the victim.

PMID: 3171789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Reg Anaesth. 1988 Oct;11(4):84-91.

[Continuous sedation for regional anesthesia with propofol (Disoprivan) and
midazolam (Dormicum). A comparative study].

[Article in German]

Dertwinkel R(1), Nolte H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anaesthesiologie, Klinikum Minden.

Propofol was compared to midazolam with regard to its quality as a sedative in
regional anesthesia. 81 patients undergoing varicose-vein stripping under
epidural anesthesia were divided into two groups: 39 were given propofol and 42
were given midazolam. Both groups were then subdivided into 3 subgroups. 30 min
after epidural block, a bolus of propofol 1 mg/kg or midazolam 0.03 mg/kg was
given followed by infusion of equipotent solutions: propofol 1.0, 1.5, or 2.0
mg/kg/h or midazolam 0.03, 0.045, 0.06 mg/kg/h. Continuous registration of blood 
pressure, respiratory rate, and end-expiratory pCO2 was carried out and blood gas
analysis was performed every 30 min.RESULTS: Clinically unimportant changes of
circulatory and respiratory parameters were seen. Blood gas analyses showed
hypercapnia greater than 50 mmHg in some patients. Brief apnea occurred after
bolus propofol in 7.7% of cases and pain during injection in 66.6%. Restlessness:
propofol 28.2%, midazolam 9.5%. Upper airway obstruction: propofol 30.8%,
midazolam 57.1%. Recovery time after infusion ranged from 130 s with propofol to 
26 min with midazolam. Postoperative evaluation included the following questions 
and responses: Sedation pleasant? propofol 97.5%, midazolam 100%. Sleep during
surgery? propofol 94.8%, midazolam 83.5%. Prolonged tiredness? propofol 25.6%,
midazolam 69%. Postoperative nausea? propofol 38.5%, midazolam 14.2%. Vomiting?
propofol 17.9%, midazolam 11.9%. Our study showed that propofol is highly
suitable as a sedative for regional anesthesia in spite of injection pain and
frequent postoperative nausea. It is superior to midazolam because of the
significantly shorter recovery time, providing improved control-lability and
reduced posthypnotic sleep.

PMID: 3265527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Reg Anaesth. 1988 Oct;11(4):92-7.

[Influence of minimum current for peripheral nerve stimulation on the latency and
success rate of sciatic blockade].

[Article in German]

Kaiser H(1), Niesel HC, Klimpel L.

Author information: 
(1)Anaesthesie-Abteilung, St.-Marienkrankenhaus, Ludwigshafen.

The efficacy of conduction anesthesia depends to a great extent on accurate
application of the local anesthetic solution (LA) in close proximity to the nerve
trunk. The problem with most peripheral nerve stimulators available in the past
was that they did not provide a small enough electrical stimulus. Correct
positioning of the needle could not be guaranteed if muscle contractions
occurred. New current-controlled stimulators have recently been developed with
low currents from 0.1 mA upwards. We studied the intensity of stimulus currents
eliciting just-visible muscle contractions in the lower leg (m. triceps surae) to
see how this influenced the latency and success rate of sciatic nerve
block.METHOD: In a randomized study, 35 patients (18-68 years, ASA I and II)
undergoing elective surgery were investigated. The block was performed by
posterior approach using 30 ml 1% prilocaine. The stimulator was switched on with
a frequency of 1 impulse/s and a stimulus current of 1 mA when the insulated
needle was at a depth of 4 cm. In group 1 (n = 5) LA was injected when the first 
visible muscle contractions occurred at a current of 1.0 mA, but vanished if the 
current was diminished. In group 2 (n = 10) the needle was placed if a minimum
current of 0.5 mA just triggered a muscular response. In group 3 (n = 10) the
threshold current was 0.3 mA and in group 4 (n = 10) 0.1 mA. In all cases direct 
contact between the needle tip and the nerve was avoided.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

PMID: 3222491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1988 Oct;19(5):251-6.

[Follow-up study of observation clinic patients with the diagnosis of amnestic
syndrome or Alzheimer type senile dementia].

[Article in Dutch]

Dinkgreve MA(1), van Willenswaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Vakgroep Psychiatrie VU, Valeriuskliniek, Amsterdam.

In two Dutch observation clinics elderly patients suspected of dementia or
related illnesses are screened and diagnosed. After an average period of three
months in the clinic, more than 50% of them are admitted to nursing homes with
psycho-geriatric care units. These patients suffer from various types of
dementia. In this study we compared the screening results and diagnoses with a
number of psycho-social variables, medical variables and the follow up diagnoses 
of the surviving patients, two years after their admission to the nursing homes. 
The follow up data were obtained from questionnaires, which were filled in by the
medical staff of the nursing homes. The total number of patients of which
sufficient material was collected is 117. These patients were diagnosed as senile
dementia of the Alzheimer type (n = 64), as amnestic syndrome (n = 20), or as
amnestic syndrome suspected of Alzheimer type dementia (n = 33). Their average
age was 82.5 (on admission to nursing home, range 65 to 98 years).RESULTS: major 
differences between the groups were found in mortality, incontinence and
psychological impairment. There was a difference between the diagnosis made by
the observation clinic and by the nursing home: about 40% of the patients with
amnestic syndrome (observation clinic diagnosis) developed senile dementia of the
Alzheimer type, according to the nursing home physicians.

PMID: 3232169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. BMJ. 1988 Sep 17;297(6650):707-10.

Comparison of high fibre diets, basal insulin supplements, and flexible insulin
treatment for non-insulin dependent (type II) diabetics poorly controlled with
sulphonylureas.

Scott AR(1), Attenborough Y, Peacock I, Fletcher E, Jeffcoate WJ, Tattersall RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Nottingham.

OBJECTIVE: To compare high fibre diet, basal insulin supplements and a regimen of
insulin four times daily in non-insulin dependent (type II) diabetic patients who
were poorly controlled with sulphonylureas.
DESIGN: Run in period lasting 2-3 months during which self monitoring of glucose 
concentration was taught, followed by six months on a high fibre diet, followed
by six months' treatment with insulin in those patients who did not respond to
the high fibre diet.
SETTING: Teaching hospital diabetic clinics.
PATIENTS: 33 patients who had had diabetes for at least two years and had
haemoglobin A1 concentrations over 10% despite receiving nearly maximum doses of 
oral hypoglycaemic agents. No absolute indications for treatment with insulin.
INTERVENTIONS: During the high fibre diet daily fibre intake was increased by a
mean of 16 g (95% confidence interval 12 to 20 g.) Twenty five patients were then
started on once daily insulin. After three months 14 patients were started on
four injections of insulin daily.
ENDPOINT: Control of diabetes (haemoglobin A1 concentration less than or equal to
10% and fasting plasma glucose concentration less than or equal to 6 mmol/l) or
completion of six months on insulin treatment.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: No change in weight, diet, or concentrations of
fasting glucose or haemoglobin A1 occurred during run in period. During high
fibre diet there were no changes in haemoglobin A1 concentrations, but mean
fasting glucose concentrations rose by 1.7 mmol/l (95% confidence interval 0.9 to
2.5, p less than 0.01). With once daily insulin mean concentrations of fasting
plasma glucose fell from 12.6 to 7.6 mmol/l (p less than 0.001) and haemoglobin
A1 from 14.6% to 11.2% (p less than 0.001). With insulin four times daily
concentrations of haemoglobin A1 fell from 11.5% to 9.6% (p less than 0.02).
Lipid concentrations were unchanged by high fibre diet. In patients receiving
insulin the mean cholesterol concentrations fell from 7.1 to 6.4 mmol/l (p less
than 0.0001), high density lipoprotein concentrations rose from 1.1 to 1.29
mmol/l (p less than 0.01), and triglyceride concentrations fell from 2.67 to 1.86
mmol/l (p less than 0.05). Patients taking insulin gained weight and those taking
it four times daily gained an average of 4.2 kg.
CONCLUSIONS: High fibre diets worsen control of diabetes in patients who are
poorly controlled with oral hypoglycaemic agents. Maximum improvements in control
of diabetes were achieved by taking insulin four times daily.

PMCID: PMC1834086
PMID: 2852514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 15;109(6):471-3.

Gastropathy and ketoconazole malabsorption in the acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome (AIDS).

Lake-Bakaar G(1), Tom W, Lake-Bakaar D, Gupta N, Beidas S, Elsakr M, Straus E.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York Health Science Center, Brooklyn.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To correlate oral ketoconazole absorption with gastric acid
secretion in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Prospective measurement of maximal acid output and oral ketoconazole
absorption with and without 0.1-N hydrochloric acid.
SETTING: Hospital in-patients in university medical center.
PATIENTS: Ten consecutive male patients with AIDS.
INTERVENTION: Maximal acid output was determined after pentagastrin stimulation
in all patients. Serum ketoconazole levels were measured the day after ingestion 
of a 200-mg ketoconazole tablet in the fasted state. On the final day,
ketoconazole was ingested with 200 mL of 0.1-N hydrochloric acid.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Maximal acid output was below 15 mEq/h in 7 of 10 
patients. In all 7, the area under the serum ketoconazole concentration-time
curve was below normal (1.4 +/- 0.9 mg/h.L; mean +/- SE), and absorption was
normalized by hydrochloric acid (9.9 +/- mg/h.L). Two of three patients with
maximal acid outputs above 15 mEq/h had normal ketoconazole absorption (15.1 +/- 
6.7 mg/h.L).
CONCLUSIONS: The bioavailability of oral ketoconazole is reduced in patients with
AIDS, largely as a result of gastric hypochlorhydria. Ketoconazole tablets should
therefore be given with acid in these patients.

PMID: 3415107  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 15;109(6):456-60.

The abdominojugular test: technique and hemodynamic correlates.

Ewy GA.

Author information: 
University of Arizona College of Medicine, Tucson.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Dec 15;109(12):997.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the hemodynamic correlates of a modified
abdominojugular reflux test.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: Referral-based cardiology practice in a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Two consecutive samples of 65 (group 1) and 21 (group 2) patients
having both right and left heart catheterization.
INTERVENTIONS: Ten seconds of firm midabdominal pressure was applied by hand in
all patients. In group 1 patients, right atrial pressures were recorded during
this maneuver. In group 2 patients, simultaneous right atrial and pulmonary
arterial wedge pressures were recorded during this maneuver. In group 2 patients,
this abdominojugular test was also done at the bedside before cardiac
catheterization by observing the changes in the jugular venous pressure.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Positive results on an abdominojugular test,
defined as an increase in the right atrial pressure during 10 seconds of firm
midabdominal compression followed by an abrupt drop in pressure of at least 3 mm 
Hg (4 cm of blood) on pressure release, were found in patients who as a group had
hemodynamic evidence of left ventricular failure. The patients with a positive
response had lower left ventricular ejection fractions and stroke volumes, and
higher left ventricular filling, higher mean pulmonary arterial, and higher right
atrial pressures. The pulmonary arterial occluded or wedge pressures provided the
clearest separation between patients with and without a positive response. The
mean pulmonary arterial wedge pressure was 10.5 +/- 1 mm Hg in patients with a
negative response and 19 +/- 3 mm Hg in patients with a positive response (P less
than 0.001). In all but one of the group 2 patients, miabdominal pressure
produced similar directional changes in both the right atrial and pulmonary
arterial wedge pressures.
CONCLUSIONS: The abdominojugular test, when done in a standardized fashion,
correlates best with the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure, and therefore, is
probably a reflection of an increased central blood volume. In the absence of
isolated right ventricular failure, seen in some patients with right ventricular 
infarction, a positive abdominojugular test suggests a pulmonary artery wedge
pressure of 15 mm Hg or greater.

PMID: 3415106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 15;109(6):465-70.

Effects of a low saturated fat, low cholesterol fish oil supplement in
hypertriglyceridemic patients. A placebo-controlled trial.

Harris WS(1), Dujovne CA, Zucker M, Johnson B.

Author information: 
(1)University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of fish oil supplements low in
saturated fat and cholesterol on plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels in
hypertriglyceridemic patients.
DESIGN: Single-blind, placebo-controlled (safflower oil), crossover trial with
6-week treatment periods.
SETTING: Outpatient lipid clinic in a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Eleven adult patients had isolated hypertriglyceridemia (type IV) and
seven had concomitant hypercholesterolemia (Type IIb).
INTERVENTION: Twelve 1-g capsules of either fish oil or placebo (safflower oil)
were taken daily during each treatment period.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Blood was drawn at the fifth and sixth week of
each period and analyzed for total lipids; cholesterol in very low, low (LDL),
and high density (HDL) lipoproteins (mmol/L); and apoprotein B (mg/dL). Compared 
with the placebo, fish oil lowered plasma triglyceride levels (4.0 +/- 1.8 to 2.5
+/- 1.0), and raised LDL cholesterol levels (3.7 +/- 1.75 to 4.25 +/- 0.85),
apolipoprotein B levels (122 +/- 29 to 140 +/- 34), and the ratio of LDL
cholesterol to HDL cholesterol (4.0 +/- 0.9 to 4.7 +/- 1.4) (P less than 0.05;
mean +/- SD). No significant changes were seen in levels of HDL or HDL
cholesterol subfractions. Similar responses were seen in patients with both type 
IIb and IV lipoprotein phenotypes.
CONCLUSIONS: Because the fish oil supplement contributed negligible amounts of
cholesterol and saturated fat to the diet, the n-3 fatty acids most likely caused
the observed effects. These findings indicate that relatively small amounts of
fish oil can have beneficial effects on plasma triglyceride levels in
hypertriglyceridemic patients, but the increase in LDL cholesterol and apoprotein
B levels, and in the LDL cholesterol to HDL cholesterol ratio suggests the need
for careful monitoring of plasma lipoprotein changes during fish oil
supplementation, and for a careful evaluation of their long-term benefits.

PMID: 3166357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 15;109(6):461-4.

Functional asplenia after bone marrow transplantation. A late complication
related to extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease.

Kalhs P(1), Panzer S, Kletter K, Minar E, Stain-Kos M, Walter R, Lechner K,
Hinterberger W.

Author information: 
(1)University of Vienna, Austria.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate splenic function in bone marrow transplant
recipients, with relation to chronic graft-versus-host disease and infections.
DESIGN: Survey, outpatients geographically accessible for voluntary
participation.
SETTING: Bone marrow transplantation referral center.
PATIENTS: Fifteen bone marrow graft recipients (13 allogeneic, 2 autologous), out
of a total of 33 patients who received transplants at the center and survived
more than 6 months after grafting.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In 6 of 15 patients impaired splenic function
(functional asplenia) was indicated by the presence of Howell-Jolly bodies in
peripheral blood smears, reduced spleen size (P less than 0.001), higher platelet
counts (P less than 0.01), higher indium-111 labeled autologous platelet recovery
(P less than 0.005), reduced splenic blood flow (P less than 0.001), and reduced 
accumulation of radioactivity at the splenic site (P less than 0.001). All
patients with functional asplenia but only 2 patients without functional asplenia
had extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease. The incidence of bacterial
infections was four times higher in patients with impaired splenic function.
CONCLUSIONS: Functional asplenia is a late complication after allogeneic bone
marrow transplantation and contributes to the high susceptibility to bacterial
infections in patients with extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease.

PMID: 3046449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. BMJ. 1988 Sep 10;297(6649):663-8.

Randomised controlled trial of general practitioner intervention in patients with
excessive alcohol consumption.

Wallace P(1), Cutler S, Haines A.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Epidemiology and Medical Care Unit, Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow,
Middlesex.

OBJECTIVE: To determine effectiveness of advice from general practitioners to
heavy drinkers to reduce their excessive alcohol consumption (35 U or more a week
for men, 21 U or more for women).
DESIGN: Randomised, controlled double blind trial over 12 months with interim
assessment at six months.
SETTING: Group practices (n = 47; list size averaging 10,000) recruited from
Medical Research Council's general practice research framework, mostly in rural
or small urban settings.
PATIENTS: Patients recruited after questionnaire survey. Of total of 2571 (61.2%)
of 4203 patients invited for interview who attended, 909 (35.4%) stated that in
past seven days they had drunk above the limits set for study and had not
received advice; they were randomised to control and treatment groups.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients in treatment group were interviewed by general
practitioner (who had had a training session) and received advice and information
about how to reduce consumption and also given a drinking diary.
END POINT: Study aimed at detecting a reduction in proportion of men with
excessive alcohol consumption of 30% in treatment group and 20% in control group 
(for women 40% and 20%, respectively) with a power of 90% at 5% level of
significance. In addition, corroborative measures such as estimation of
gamma-glutamyltransferase activity were included.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At one year a mean reduction in consumption of
alcohol of 18.2 (SE 1.5) U/week had occurred in treated men compared with a
reduction of 8.1 (1.6) U/week in controls (p less than 0.001). The proportion of 
men with excessive consumption at interview had dropped by 43.7% in the treatment
group compared with 25.5% in controls (p less than 0.001). A mean reduction in
weekly consumption of 11.5 (1.6) U occurred in treated women compared with 6.3
(2.0) U in controls (p less than 0.05), with proportionate reductions of
excessive drinkers in treatment and control groups of 47.7% and 29.2%
respectively. Reduction in consumption increased significantly with number of
general practitioner interventions. At one year the mean value for
gamma-glutamyltransferase activity had dropped significantly more in treated men 
(-2.4 (0.9)IU/l) than in controls (+1.1(1.0)IU/l; t = 2.7, p less than 0.01).
Reduction in gamma-glutamyltransferase activity tended to increase with number of
intervention sessions in men. Changes in gamma-glutamyltransferase activity in
women and changes in other indicators in both sexes did not differ significantly 
between treatment and control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: If the results of this study were applied to the United Kingdom
intervention by general practitioners could each year reduce to moderate levels
the alcohol consumption of some 250000 men and 67500 women who currently drink to
excess. General practitioners and other members of the primary health care team
should therefore be encouraged to include counselling about alcohol consumption
in their preventive activities.

PMCID: PMC1834369
PMID: 3052668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):369-74.

Evaluation of a simple method for measuring blood cholesterol levels using
non-laboratory observers.

Pearson JR(1), Dusenbury LJ, Bakes-Martin R, Loverde M, Johnson J, Byyny RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver
80262.

PURPOSE: Blood cholesterol is a good estimator of risk for coronary heart
disease. Six criteria for a screening cholesterol measurement are: (1) high
predictive value of elevated cholesterol compared with a "gold standard"
cholesterol measurement; (2) high correlation with the national reference system 
for cholesterol; (3) acceptable results obtainable by volunteer observers; (4)
results available quickly; (5) reproducible results; and (6) low cost. We
hypothesized that cholesterol measurements performed on the Reflotron by
volunteer nurses would meet these criteria.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We recruited 345 subjects (160 men, 185 women, aged 20 to
84) and measured their blood cholesterol level by a method calibrated under the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Lipid Standardization Program
(Lab-chol) and on the Reflotron (R-chol method).
RESULTS: Comparison of the results showed good agreement (slope = 0.937;
intercept = 0.27 mmol/liter). Comparison of the risk assignments made by the
R-chol method against those made by the Lab-chol method, using the 1987 Adult
Treatment Panel classification criteria, showed that the R-chol method has a
sensitivity of 0.79 and a specificity of 0.98. Assuming a national prevalence of 
hypercholesterolemia of 25 percent, the positive predictive value is 0.92 and the
negative predictive value is 0.93. The cost per screen was $1.25.
CONCLUSION: These data show that volunteer observers can obtain screening
cholesterol results on the Reflotron that are accurate, reliable, quickly
available at a low cost, and have high predictive value for hypercholesterolemia.

PMID: 3414733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):365-8.

Appropriateness of digoxin use in medical outpatients.

Papadakis MA(1), Massie BM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, San Francisco Veterans Administration
Medical Center, California 94121.

PURPOSE: Digoxin is the third most commonly prescribed drug, yet limited
information exists about its use in outpatients. Therefore, 242 medical
outpatients receiving digoxin at our hospital were studied to evaluate the
appropriateness of its use, defined by: (1) current or past supraventricular
arrhythmias and/or (2) left ventricular systolic dysfunction (ejection fraction
less than 45 percent).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Charts of 242 patients receiving digoxin were obtained. The
patients were divided into groups based upon their physician's stated indication 
for digoxin therapy. Patients with only a clinical diagnosis of congestive heart 
failure (CHF) underwent echocardiography or radionuclide angiography to quantify 
left ventricular systolic function. Those with documented supraventricular
arrhythmias and/or those with confirmed left ventricular systolic dysfunction
were classified as appropriate candidates for digoxin.
RESULTS: Ninety-five percent of patients received digoxin for appropriate
indications; 75 percent had confirmed supraventricular arrhythmias (27 percent
also had CHF) and 20 percent with normal sinus rhythm had documented systolic
dysfunction. However, physicians had difficulty in the clinical assessment of
left ventricular function; 18 percent of patients with sinus rhythm and CHF by
the Framingham scoring system and 20 percent of those with supraventricular
arrhythmias and CHF had preserved systolic function. An S3 was present in 15
percent of patients with preserved ejection fraction and CHF and in 69 percent
with low ejection fraction; hypertension was significantly more common in the
former group. Noninvasive assessment of systolic function was obtained in 97
percent of patients independent of this study, yet some patients without
supraventricular arrhythmias and with documented preservation of systolic
function continued to receive the drug.
CONCLUSION: Noninvasive assessment of left ventricular function, which appears to
have become routine, is of value in the appropriate utilization of digoxin, since
clinicians' assessment of left ventricular function may be inaccurate. Physicians
also do not always discontinue digoxin therapy when indicated.

PMID: 3414732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):360-4.

Utility of serum fructosamine as a measure of glycemia in young and old diabetic 
and non-diabetic subjects.

Negoro H(1), Morley JE, Rosenthal MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sepulveda Veterans Administration Medical Center, Geriatric Research, Education, 
and Clinical Center, California 91343.

PURPOSE: Currently used methods to determine glycemia have certain disadvantages,
including cost, heavy labor involvement, and storage problems. Determination of
serum fructosamine levels, on the other hand, offers several potential advantages
over these current measures. Our goal was to evaluate the utility of serum
fructosamine as a measure of glycemia.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Fructosamine levels were measured in 145 normal and
diabetic subjects aged 20 to 86 years. The measured levels were then related to
standard measures of glycemia, including glycosylated hemoglobin, glycosylated
albumin, and fasting glucose. The effects of chronic illness and medications
known to alter glucose tolerance were also investigated.
RESULTS: Fructosamine levels were well correlated with other measures: r = 0.73
with glucose, 0.76 with hemoglobin A1C (HbA1C), and 0.80 with glycosylated
albumin. Levels of fructosamine were significantly higher (p less than 0.001) in 
diabetic subjects compared with those in non-diabetic subjects, but were not
affected by age and were only minimally affected by chronic illness. Values for
diabetic subjects with well-controlled and poorly controlled disease were also
significantly different.
CONCLUSION: Assay of serum fructosamine appears to be comparable to that of HbA1C
for determination of glycemic control. The automaticity, reproducibility, and
lower cost for the fructosamine assay argue strongly in favor of this assay in
comparison to those for other glycosylated proteins.

PMID: 3414731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):349-52.

Comparison between measured and fick-derived values of hemodynamic and oxymetric 
variables in patients with acute myocardial infarction.

Pomés Iparraguirre H(1), Giniger R, Garber VA, Quiroga E, Jorge MA.

Author information: 
(1)Coronary Care Unit, Policlinica Bancaria, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

PURPOSE: Previous studies have compared the relationship between directly
measured values for cardiac output, systemic oxygen consumption (VO2), and
arteriovenous oxygen difference (D(A-v)O2) with those calculated by the Fick
principle. However, the validity of Fick's principle in critically ill patients
undergoing physiologic changes and pharmacologic interventions is unknown. The
purpose of our study was to compare directly measured values for hemodynamic and 
oxymetric variables with those calculated by the Fick equation in patients with
acute myocardial infarction, at baseline and after the hemodynamic changes
produced by pharmacologic interventions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cardiac output, (VO2), and (D(A-v)O2) were measured in 33
patients with acute myocardial infarction, at baseline (50 +/- 30 hours after the
onset of symptoms) and after pharmacologic intervention to relieve pulmonary
congestion. These values were then compared with indirect values derived from the
Fick equation.
RESULTS: High and significant correlations were found between thermodilution and 
Fick-derived cardiac output at baseline (r = 0.91, p less than 0.001) and
post-intervention (r = 0.92, p less than 0.001). Similarly, VO2 values measured
by expired gas analysis showed a significant correlation with VO2 calculated by
the Fick principle, at baseline (r = 0.85, p less than 0.001) and
post-intervention (r = 0.84, p less than 0.001). Lastly, when D(A-v)O2 of
arterial and mixed venous samples was measured by spectrophotometry and compared 
with calculated values, there was a significant correlation at baseline (r =
0.85, p less than 0.001) and after intervention (r = 0.85, p less than 0.001).
Analysis of variance revealed no difference between measured and calculated
values for the three variables under those two conditions.
CONCLUSION: In patients with acute myocardial infarction, cardiac output, VO2,
and D(A-v)O2 indirectly calculated by the Fick principle are equivalent to
directly measured values, despite the various degrees of hemodynamic dysfunction 
and the currently used therapeutic interventions.

PMID: 3414730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):339-43.

A double dose of phenylpropanolamine causes transient hypertension.

Lake CR(1), Zaloga G, Clymer R, Quirk RM, Chernow B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
F. Edward Hebert School of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799.

PURPOSE: Phenylpropanolamine is widely used and freely available without a
doctor's prescription in drug and grocery stores; it is the active ingredient in 
most diet aids and many cold preparations. Several cases of multiple cerebral
hemorrhages associated with transient hypertension have recently been attributed 
to phenylpropanolamine in dosages equal to or less than that contained in two
diet aids (i.e., 150 mg). Some evidence also exists on the additive effects of
the co-ingestion of phenylpropanolamine and caffeine. We therefore undertook a
study to demonstrate that a significant health risk can be caused by a double
dose of a typical over-the-counter (OTC) diet aid (i.e., 150 mg
phenylpropanolamine) and also when 75 mg phenylpropanolamine is taken with
caffeine.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Five men and one woman, ranging in age from 20 to 30,
participated in this study. The drug preparations were administered to each
subject on different study days in a double-blind, randomized-crossover design.
Identical capsules contained 75 mg sustained-release phenylpropanolamine, 400 mg 
of sustained-release caffeine, or placebo. Subjects ingested three capsules at
the beginning of each study day. For 150 mg, two phenylpropanolamine-containing
capsules and one placebo were taken; for 75 mg, one phenylpropanolamine capsule
and two placebos; and for phenylpropanolamine plus caffeine, one 75 mg
phenylpropanolamine capsule, one 400 mg caffeine capsule, and one placebo. Blood 
pressure and heart rate were monitored throughout the study.
RESULTS: Although 75 mg of phenylpropanolamine did not cause clinically relevant 
hypertension in our subjects, 150 mg of phenylpropanolamine and 75 mg of
phenylpropanolamine plus 400 mg caffeine did result in significant blood pressure
increases into the hypertensive range.
CONCLUSION: We believe that consumers often assume that double the recommended
dosage of an OTC drug is safe and more effective. We suggest that requiring a
physician's prescription or an additional, stronger warning label on
phenylpropanolamine-containing products may prevent substantial mortality and
morbidity.

PMID: 3414729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):331-8.

Intravenous nicardipine for the treatment of severe hypertension.

Wallin JD(1), Cook ME, Blanski L, Bienvenu GS, Clifton GG, Langford H, Turlapaty 
P, Laddu A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans,
Louisiana 70112.

PURPOSE: Severe hypertension responds to treatment with nifedipine given orally
or sublingually. Nicardipine hydrochloride, a water soluble dihydropyridine
analogue similar to nifedipine, has less of a negative ionotropic effect and
produces less reflex tachycardia than nifedipine. Our purpose was to assess the
antihypertensive efficacy and safety of intravenous nicardipine in a group of
patients with severe hypertension (defined as a supine diastolic blood pressure
of more than 120 mm Hg).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients with severe hypertension received
treatment with intravenous nicardipine. Nicardipine titration was performed using
doses of 4 to 15 mg/hour to achieve therapeutic goal (diastolic blood pressure 95
mm Hg or less or decrease in diastolic blood pressure of more than 25 mm Hg).
After this therapeutic end-point was reached, patients received maintainance
therapy with nicardipine for varying lengths of time: one hour (Group I), six
hours (Group II), or 24 hours. When blood pressure control was lost, patients in 
Groups I and II entered a second maintenance period lasting a maximum of 24
hours. Onset and offset of action of nicardipine at various infusion rates and
times of infusion were measured.
RESULTS: Onset time to achieve therapeutic response was rapid at 15 mg/hour (0.31
+/- 0.13 hours) when compared with lower doses (1.11 +/- 0.36 hours at 4 mg/hour;
0.54 +/- 0.09 hours at 5 mg/hour; 0.52 +/- 0.09 hours at 7 to 7.5 mg/hour). Those
who showed a therapeutic response received maintenance infusions with nicardipine
for one (n = 7), six (n = 6), or 24 (n = 5) hours. Sustained blood pressure
control at a constant rate of nicardipine infusion was seen in all patients
during the maintenance period. After discontinuation of nicardipine, the time for
offset of action (increase in diastolic blood pressure of 10 mm Hg or more) was
independent of duration of infusion. Decreases in both systolic and diastolic
pressures correlated well with plasma nicardipine levels. Heart rate increased by
about 10 beats/minute, but this increase did not correlate with plasma
nicardipine levels. Side effects were minimal, consisting of headache and
flushing. In seven patients, local phlebitis developed at the site of infusion.
This occurred after at least 14 hours of infusion at a single site, and the
incidence can probably be reduced by shortening the infusion time at a single
site.
CONCLUSION: Nicardipine appears to be a safe and effective drug for intravenous
use in the treatment of severe hypertension.

PMID: 3414728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):292-300.

Infections of the cardiac suture line after left ventricular surgery.

McHenry MC(1), Longworth DL, Rehm SJ, Keys TF, Moon HK, Cosgrove DM 3rd, Loop FD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio 44106.

PURPOSE: Infections of the cardiac suture line after left ventricular surgery are
rare but may be fatal if not diagnosed promptly and treated effectively. In order
to alert physicians to this entity, we reviewed data from three patients who
presented at the Cleveland Clinic Hospital and from 22 patients in the
literature.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The three patients in the current report underwent
treatment at the Cleveland Clinic Hospital. Additional cases of infection of the 
left ventricular suture line were identified by reviewing the English literature 
pertaining to surgery for left ventricular aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms, and
postoperative cardiac infections.
RESULTS: Infection presented on average 16 months after surgery with
cardiocutaneous fistulae, chest wall masses, hemoptysis or other pleuropulmonary 
symptoms, or systemic illness with bacteremia resembling endocarditis.
Staphylococci and gram-negative bacilli were the most frequent pathogens.
Diagnosis was often delayed and mortality was high. Left ventricular false
aneurysms were identified in 15 of the 25 patients. Bleeding from sinuses in the 
chest wall or epigastrium or repeated hemoptysis were important clinical clues.
In some instances, ill-advised surgical or instrumental procedures precipitated
life-threatening hemorrhage. Treatment with antibiotics alone was insufficient.
Excision of all infected sutures and Teflon pledgets and adequate debridement of 
the infected suture line were required to achieve cures.
CONCLUSION: Since infection of the left ventricular suture line has protean
clinical manifestations and may present months or years after the initial
surgery, a high index of suspicion is of paramount importance in diagnosing the
condition. Institution of cardiopulmonary bypass and reoperation through median
sternotomy is recommended to achieve a cure.

PMID: 3414727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):289-91.

Elevated levels of circulating cachectin/tumor necrosis factor in patients with
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

Lähdevirta J(1), Maury CP, Teppo AM, Repo H.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Department, Aurora Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.

PURPOSE: In order to evaluate the relationship between cachectin/tumor necrosis
factor (TNF) and cachexia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), we
studied the serum levels of endogenous cachectin/TNF in subjects with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-three serum samples were obtained from 39
HIV-seropositive patients. The condition of each patient was clinically
classified as either asymptomatic, lymphadenopathy syndrome (LAS), AIDS-related
complex (ARC), or AIDS. Control sera were obtained from 29 healthy male blood
donors. A double antibody radioimmunoassay was used to measure the serum levels
of cachectin/TNF.
RESULTS: Cachectin/TNF levels were within the reference range of the control
values in all (eight of eight) asymptomatic HIV-infected subjects and in 11 of 13
of the patients with LAS. In contrast, all patients with AIDS (nine of nine) and 
five of nine of the patients with ARC had raised levels of cachectin/TNF.
Fluctuation of the levels of cachectin/TNF occurred during follow-up, but
initially raised levels remained elevated.
CONCLUSION: Since cachectin/TNF suppresses lipoprotein lipase in adipocytes in
vitro, and causes weight loss under experimental conditions, the findings of
raised levels of cachectin/TNF in patients with AIDS may have relevance to the
pathogenesis of cachexia.

PMID: 3414726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):353-9.

Hemorrhagic complications associated with the use of intravenous tissue
plasminogen activator in treatment of acute myocardial infarction.

Califf RM(1), Topol EJ, George BS, Boswick JM, Abbottsmith C, Sigmon KN, Candela 
R, Masek R, Kereiakes D, O'Neill WW, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710.

PURPOSE: Little attention has been paid to the importance of clinical factors
associated with bleeding complications caused by the use of thrombolytic agents. 
The goal of our study was to examine clinical and hematologic factors associated 
with an increased risk of bleeding in a prospectively observed population that
received intravenous tissue plasminogen activator for acute myocardial
infarction.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Bleeding complications were evaluated in 386 consecutive
patients treated with 150 mg of tissue plasminogen activator over six to eight
hours for acute myocardial infarction. All patients also underwent immediate
cardiac catheterization.
RESULTS: Quantitation of blood loss during the patients' hospital stay included a
median drop in hematocrit of 11.4 points, a median nadir hematocrit of 31.2, a 14
percent rate of significant clinically evident bleeding, and a 31 percent rate of
transfusion of two or more units of blood. All of these parameters were much more
severe in patients treated with coronary artery bypass surgery. Access site
hematoma was the most common source of bleeding (45 percent of patients), whereas
8 percent had gastrointestinal bleeding, two patients had retroperitoneal
bleeding, and two patients had intracranial bleeding. The median nadir fibrinogen
was 1.3 g/liter. Multiple linear regression models were used to investigate the
relationship between clinical variables, including multiple hematologic
measurements, and measures of the amount of blood loss. The use of coronary
artery bypass grafting was the variable most closely associated with hemorrhage. 
Other invasive procedures (angioplasty and intra-aortic balloon pumping) were
also associated with increased bleeding. Among the patient descriptors examined, 
lighter weight, older age, female sex, and history of hypertension were
associated with greater blood loss. Of laboratory coagulation parameters, only
nadir fibrinogen levels were significantly associated with more bleeding.
CONCLUSION: Careful clinical evaluation may improve assessment of the
risk/benefit ratio of thrombolytic therapy.

PMID: 3137818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):344-8.

Captopril in patients with type II diabetes and renal insufficiency: systemic and
renal hemodynamic alterations.

Valvo E(1), Bedogna V, Casagrande P, Antiga L, Zamboni M, Bommartini F, Oldrizzi 
L, Rugiu C, Maschio G.

Author information: 
(1)Divisione Clinicizzata di Nefrologia Medica, Centro Antidiabetico, Verona, Italy.

PURPOSE: To our knowledge, clinical studies on the long-term use of angiotensin
converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with type II diabetes mellitus and
nephropathy with incipient renal failure are nonexistent. We therefore assessed
the effects of long-term treatment with captopril on systemic and renal
hemodynamics and urinary protein excretion in patients with type II diabetes
mellitus and the clinical syndrome of diabetic nephropathy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twelve patients, 10 men and two women, with an average age 
of 52 years (range, 40 to 66), participated in the study. After the basal
hemodynamic evaluation, the patients received captopril in two daily doses. The
dosage was adjusted at weekly intervals in order to obtain normalization of blood
pressure without exceeding the maximum allowable dosage. Four patients also
received furosemide (20 to 40 mg/day).
RESULTS: After six months of treatment, the intra-arterial blood pressure fell
(from 162 +/- 17/103 +/- 5 to 139 +/- 26/89 +/- 10 mm Hg) due to the reduction in
total peripheral vascular resistance index (from 3,720 +/- 658 to 3,190 +/- 762
dynes/second/cm-5/m2), with no change in cardiac index (2.78 +/- 0.36 to 2.79 +/-
0.47 liters/minute/m2). No significant change was seen in renal vascular
resistance (from 30,175 +/- 5,371 to 30,173 +/- 5,372 dynes/second/cm-5/1.73 m2) 
and in filtration fraction (from 26 +/- 8 to 27 +/- 10 percent). A slight, not
significant, decrease in renal plasma flow (from 243 +/- 97 to 217 +/- 108
ml/minute/1.73 m2), in glomerular filtration rate (from 57 +/- 17 to 51 +/- 19
ml/minute/1.73 m2), and in proteinuria (from 4.50 +/- 3.10 to 3.40 +/- 2.31
g/day) was also observed.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that captopril is an effective antihypertensive 
agent in patients with diabetic nephropathy, but the renal beneficial effects
seem to be limited when this syndrome is complicated by renal insufficiency.

PMID: 3046353  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):315-26.

Treatment of proteinuric idiopathic glomerulonephritides in adults: a
retrospective survey.

Schena FP(1), Cameron JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, Guy's Hospital, London, England.

PURPOSE: A review of the worldwide medical literature was undertaken to determine
whether treatment with currently available drugs has been beneficial in patients 
with glomerulonephritides.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-five articles, involving 1,653 adult patients with 
chronic primary glomerulonephritis with proteinuria and/or nephrotic syndrome,
were analyzed. The criteria for inclusion of data were strict, and only complete 
and well-studied cases were included in the analysis. The papers were grouped
into prospective controlled trials, retrospective comparisons of treated and
untreated patients, and retrospective studies without an untreated group.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of the data shows that patients with minimal
change disease clearly benefited from the administration of corticosteroids
and/or cytotoxic drugs, since 89 percent and 79 percent of patients had a
complete remission in controlled trials and in retrospective studies,
respectively. A low incidence of complete and partial remissions was found in the
group of patients with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, proteinuria
disappeared in 19 percent, and only 36 percent of these patients had stable renal
function after a mean follow-up period of 6.3 years. The incidence of uremia and 
the number of patients requiring dialysis were very high. In patients with
membraneous glomerulonephritis, conflicting results were obtained in controlled
trials, retrospective comparisons, and retrospective studies, since a high
percentage of complete and partial remissions was present in treated patients
from both controlled and retrospective comparisons, whereas the percentage of
complete and partial remission in untreated patients increased as the length of
the follow-up period increased. Long-term studies carried out on untreated
patients confirmed the high percentage of remissions. These data suggest that it 
is necessary to await future long-term results from controlled trials in order to
determine whether or not corticosteroids alone or associated with cytotoxic drugs
have a beneficial effect. Finally, the data from patients with mesangiocapillary 
glomerulonephritis show that therapy appears to have no beneficial effect on
renal function. Nephrologists need new drugs that interfere more decisively with 
the immune process in the pathogenesis of primary glomerulonephritis.

PMID: 3046352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):307-14.

An attachable silver-impregnated cuff for prevention of infection with central
venous catheters: a prospective randomized multicenter trial.

Maki DG(1), Cobb L, Garman JK, Shapiro JM, Ringer M, Helgerson RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison.

PURPOSE: Percutaneously inserted central venous catheters are widely used.
Catheter-related bacteremia or fungemia is the most frequent serious complication
of these catheters. In an attempt to reduce the frequency of such infections, a
subcutaneous cuff constructed of a biodegradable collagen matrix impregnated with
bactericidal silver was developed. Our goal was to assess, in a multicenter
clinical trial, the effectiveness of this cuff in preventing catheter-related
infection.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Central venous catheters needed for fluid or drug therapy,
hemodynamic monitoring, or hyperalimentation in patients in three centers were
randomly assigned to be inserted with or without the cuff. Patients and catheters
in the two groups were comparable in terms of risk factors predisposing to
infection, including colonization of skin about the insertion site.
RESULTS: The results with 234 catheters inserted into a new site showed that
catheters inserted with the cuff were threefold less likely to be colonized on
removal (more than 15 colony-forming units) than were control catheters (28.9
percent versus 9.1 percent, p = 0.002) and were nearly fourfold less likely to
produce bacteremia (3.7 percent versus 1.0 percent). Adverse effects from the
cuff were not seen. The cuff did not confer protection, however against infection
with catheters inserted over a guidewire into old sites. Most of the
catheter-related infections identified in this study, including four of the six
bacteremias, appear to have been caused by microorganisms colonizing skin about
the insertion site, affirming the pathogenetic basis for benefit seen with the
cuff in this clinical trial; two may have derived from contamination of the
catheter hub.
CONCLUSION: This novel, silver-impregnated, attachable cuff can substantially
reduce the incidence of catheter-related infection with most percutaneously
inserted central venous catheters, can extend the time catheters can be left in
place safely, and can prove cost-beneficial.

PMID: 3046351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):301-6.

Intravenous acyclovir therapy of first episodes of genital herpes: a multicenter 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Peacock JE Jr(1), Kaplowitz LG, Sparling PF, Durack DT, Gnann JW Jr, Whitley RJ, 
Lovett M, Bryson YJ, Klein RJ, Friedman-Kien AE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

PURPOSE: A collaborative multicenter double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of
intravenous acyclovir treatment of first-episode genital herpes was performed in 
order to substantiate previous findings on the efficacy and safety of this drug, 
to evaluate the influence of parenteral therapy on recurrence frequency, and to
obtain further data on the natural history of genital herpes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty-two patients with first episodes of genital herpes
simplex virus (HSV) infection were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to
treatment with intravenous acyclovir (5 mg/kg every eight hours) or placebo for
five days. Before therapy, all lesions in the genital/perineal area and in
extragenital sites were cultured. New lesions appearing in both areas after the
onset of therapy were cultured separately. Lesions in all groups were cultured
until completely healed. Sera were collected from all patients on entry to the
study and on Day 21 to determine presence or absence of antibodies to HSV-1 and
HSV-2. Time to healing, time to crusting, time to cessation of viral shedding,
and appearance of new lesions during therapy were compared for each treatment
group.
RESULTS: Patients receiving acyclovir experienced a significant reduction in the 
median duration of pain (4.3 versus 4.8 days, p = 0.019), viral shedding (1.9
versus 8.4 days, p less than 0.001), and time to healing (8.4 versus 11.5 days, p
= 0.02) compared with placebo recipients. These differences were largely
attributable to the effect of therapy in the subset of patients with primary
disease in whom acyclovir reduced the median duration of pain from 10.6 days to
4.2 days, the median duration of viral shedding from 17.1 days to 1.9 days, and
the median time to healing from 14.2 days to 8.3 days. The rate of subsequent
recurrence of genital herpes was not altered by acyclovir treatment: 24 of 32
acyclovir recipients (75 percent) experienced one or more recurrences during a
mean follow-up of 14 months compared with 19 of 27 placebo recipients (70
percent). Among patients experiencing recurrences, the mean number of recurrences
per month among acyclovir recipients was 0.25 compared with 0.19 for patients
given placebo.
CONCLUSION: This multicenter trial confirms the efficacy of intravenous acyclovir
in the management of first-episode genital herpes, especially in patients with
primary infection. However, therapy did not alter the frequency of recurrences.

PMID: 3046350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):383-90.

Inherited superactivity of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase: association of
uric acid overproduction and sensorineural deafness.

Becker MA(1), Puig JG, Mateos FA, Jimenez ML, Kim M, Simmonds HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine,
Illinois.

PURPOSE: Superactivity of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (PP-Rib-P) synthetase,
inherited as an X chromosome-linked trait, has been reported in nearly 20
families in which overproduction of uric acid is invariably present in hemizygous
affected males. Clinical manifestations of PP-Rib-P synthetase superactivity are 
mainly limited to gout in early adulthood. Neurologic deficits, including
sensorineural deafness, have rarely been described. We herein document the
association of PP-Rib-P synthetase superactivity, gout with excessive uric acid
synthesis, and sensorineural deafness in an additional family.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two members of a Spanish family were studied: an
eight-year-old boy (Patient 1) with tophaceous gout, purine nucleotide and uric
acid overproduction, and sensorineural deafness, and his 27-year-old mother
(Patient 2), who had gout. Fibroblast cultures were initiated from skin biopsy
specimens, and measurements of PP-Rib-P and purine nucleotide metabolism in the
fibroblasts were performed.
RESULTS: A labile but superactive PP-Rib-P synthetase was demonstrated in the
fibroblasts cultured from both Patients 1 and 2. The kinetic basis of PP-Rib-P
synthetase superactivity in this family was resistance to purine nucleotide
inhibition of enzyme activity. More severe derangements in the enzyme and in
PP-Rib-P and purine synthesis in Patient 1's cells than in Patient 2's cells
suggest that Patient 1 is hemizygous and Patient 2 is heterozygous for an X
chromosome-linked genetic defect. Limited pedigree data support this view.
Compared with affected members of seven other families with PP-Rib-P synthetase
superactivity, these patients are intermediate in the range of clinical
expression and in the severity of the enzyme defect as measured by the degree of 
aberration of PP-Rib-P and purine nucleotide synthesis in fibroblasts. Metabolic 
abnormalities were more severe in Patient 1's cells than in the cells of most
male patients (in whom clinical expression is limited to early adult-onset gout) 
but were less severe than in the cells of two patients in whom more complex
enzyme defects were associated with uric acid overproduction and
neurodevelopmental abnormalities (including deafness) in male children and adult 
women.
CONCLUSION: Certain defects resulting in PP-Rib-P synthetase superactivity may be
causally related to neurologic impairment, most commonly sensorineural deafness.

PMID: 2843048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):375-82.

Role of atrial natriuretic peptide in the natriuretic response to central volume 
expansion induced by head-out water immersion in sodium-retaining cirrhotic
subjects.

Skorecki KL(1), Leung WM, Campbell P, Warner LC, Wong PY, Bull S, Logan AG,
Blendis LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Toronto General Hospital, Canada.

PURPOSE: It is possible that abnormalities in atrial natriuretic peptide may be
involved in the pathogenesis of sodium retention in edema states. We performed a 
study in a group of 12 sodium-retaining cirrhotic subjects to determine the role 
of this peptide in mediating differences in the natriuretic response to central
volume expansion induced by head-out water immersion.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Each patient was maintained for seven days on a 20-mmol
sodium intake, and then studied on both control and immersion days. On each day, 
measurements of the following were obtained: plasma atrial natriuretic peptide,
hematocrit, electrolytes, creatinine, plasma renin activity, serum aldosterone,
urinary cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), blood pressure, and pulse rate.
RESULTS: In six subjects, immersion resulted in a marked natriuresis sufficient
to induce negative sodium balance by the third hour, and these subjects were
termed "responders." In these six patients, baseline pre-immersion levels of
plasma renin activity and serum aldosterone were all below 3 ng/liter/second and 
4 nmol/liter, respectively. In the other six subjects, the natriuretic response
to immersion was markedly blunted and insufficient to induce negative sodium
balance, and these subjects were termed "non-responders." In these subjects,
baseline pre-immersion levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were all
above 3.5 ng/liter/second and 5 nmol/liter, respectively, and were significantly 
elevated compared with the responders, and compared with the normal range for
control subjects consuming the same sodium intake. In both groups of cirrhotic
subjects, baseline levels of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide and cGMP excretion
were significantly and comparably elevated compared with the normal range for
control subjects ingesting the same sodium intake. Despite the marked difference 
in the natriuretic response to immersion in both responders and non-responders,
there was a significant and comparable further elevation of plasma atrial
natriuretic peptide and urinary cGMP excretion during immersion, compared with
the control day.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the relative resistance to the natriuretic
action of atrial natriuretic peptide in the non-responders compared with the
responders is mediated by anti-natriuretic factors acting at a level parallel
with or beyond atrial natriuretic peptide release or coupling to its cGMP-linked 
receptors.

PMID: 2843047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Am J Med. 1988 Sep;85(3):327-30.

High serum levels of secretory component in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kew MC(1), Vincent C, Rossel M, Revillard JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

PURPOSE: Elevated levels of secretory IgA (S-IgA) have been detected in serum
samples from patients with liver diseases and neoplasia with liver metastasis. We
undertook the current study in order to determine the concentrations of different
forms of free secretory component (SC) in sera from patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The concentrations of SC, S-IgA, and secretory IgM (S-IgM)
were quantified in the sera of 100 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, and in
77 matched healthy control subjects by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assay.
RESULTS: Free SC serum levels exceeded the upper limits of control values in 82
percent of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, S-IgA levels in 88 percent of 
them, and S-IgM levels in 32 percent. Free SC levels were positively correlated
with S-IgA and S-IgM levels. They were weakly correlated with gamma-glutamyl
transpeptidase activity, but not with alpha-fetoprotein, beta 2-microglobulin,
albumin, or IgA serum concentrations, nor with alkaline phosphatase activity.
CONCLUSION: The data clearly demonstrate the elevation of serum free SC
concentrations as a novel biologic alteration in hepatocellular carcinoma since
free SC levels appear to be correlated neither with tumor markers
(alpha-fetoprotein, beta 2-microglobulin) nor with biliary obstruction.

PMID: 2458039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 1;109(5):372-82.

Histopathologic staging at initial diagnosis of mycosis fungoides and the Sézary 
syndrome. Definition of three distinctive prognostic groups.

Sausville EA(1), Eddy JL, Makuch RW, Fischmann AB, Schechter GP, Matthews M,
Glatstein E, Ihde DC, Kaye F, Veach SR, et al.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal staging evaluation at the time of
initial diagnosis of mycosis fungoides or the Sézary syndrome.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of a uniformly staged inception cohort.
SETTING: Single-institution tertiary care center.
PATIENTS: 152 consecutive patients who had mycosis fungoides with or without the 
Sézary syndrome within 6 months of the initial definitive diagnosis.
INTERVENTION: A detailed staging evaluation including physical examination,
routine laboratory studies, chest roentgenogram, lymphangiogram, peripheral blood
smear, lymph node biopsy, bone marrow aspirate or biopsy, and liver biopsy in
selected patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Univariate adverse prognostic features at initial 
diagnosis in patients with mycosis fungoides included (P less than 0.01) one or
more cutaneous tumors or generalized erythroderma, adenopathy, blood smear
involvement with Sézary cells, lymph node effacement, eosinophilia, and visceral 
involvement. Important, independent prognostic factors in a multivariate analysis
are the presence of visceral disease and type of skin involvement.
CONCLUSIONS: A staging system based on histopathologic evaluation of skin, lymph 
nodes, blood, and visceral sites provides more comprehensive prognostic
information than clinical evaluation of skin disease and adenopathy. Patients may
be divided at initial presentation into three prognostic groups: good-risk
patients, who have plaque-only skin disease without lymph node, blood, or
visceral involvement (median survival, greater than 12 years); intermediate-risk 
patients, who have cutaneous tumors, erythroderma, or plaque disease with node or
blood involvement but no visceral disease or node effacement (median survival, 5 
years); and poor-risk patients, who have visceral involvement or node effacement 
(median survival, 2.5 years).

PMID: 3408055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 1;109(5):359-63.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and death from peptic ulcer in elderly
persons.

Griffin MR(1), Ray WA, Schaffner W.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the association between current non-aspirin
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use and fatal peptic ulcers or upper 
gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
DESIGN: Nested case control study using a linked Medicaid-death certificate
database.
SETTING: Tennessee Medicaid enrollees aged 60 and greater from 1976 to 1984.
PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-two patients, "the cases," had a terminal
hospitalization and a peptic ulcer or upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage confirmed
by hospital chart review. Population controls (n = 3897) were matched to
potential cases by age, sex, race, calendar year, and nursing home status.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: "Cases" more frequently filled a prescription for 
an NSAID within 30 days before onset of illness than controls (34% compared with 
11%; adjusted odds ratio, 4.7; 95% CI, 3.1 to 7.2). This association between
fatal ulcer disease and current NSAID use was consistent in three age groups,
women and men, whites and nonwhites, and community and nursing home dwellers.
There was no significant association between case status and previous NSAID use
(adjusted odds ratio, 1.9; 95% CI, 0.7 to 4.7).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study add to the growing evidence that NSAIDs
can increase the risk for clinically serious peptic ulcer disease in the elderly.

PMID: 3261560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 1;109(5):394-8.

Removal of nosocomial pathogens from the contaminated glove. Implications for
glove reuse and handwashing.

Doebbeling BN(1), Pfaller MA, Houston AK, Wenzel RP.

Author information: 
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of three different types of
handcleansing agents in decontaminating gloved hands that were inoculated with a 
series of four nosocomial pathogens.
DESIGN: A controlled, experimental trial.
SETTING: Tertiary care referral center.
PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS: Five healthy volunteers participated in all
portions of the study.
INTERVENTIONS: A standard concentration of one of four representative nosocomial 
pathogens was placed on the gloved hand, spread, and allowed to dry. One of three
different handcleansing agents--a nonmedicated soap, a 60% isopropyl alcohol
preparation, or 4% chlorhexidine gluconate--was used to cleanse the gloves, which
were cultured using a broth-bag technique. The gloves were then removed and the
hands were cultured in a similar manner.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The handwashing agents reduced the median log10
counts of organisms to 2.1 to 3.9 after an inoculation of 10(7) colony forming
units. The proportion of positive glove cultures for Staphylococcus aureus, 8% to
100%; Serratia marcescens, 16% to 100%; and Candida albicans, 4% to 60% varied
greatly after use of the different handcleansers (P less than 0.001), and varied 
considerably for Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 20% to 48% (P = 0.085). After the gloves
were removed, the differences among the observed proportions of hands
contaminated with the test organisms varied from 5% to 50%, depending on the
handcleansing agent used (P less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In the era of universal precautions these data suggest that it may
not be prudent to wash and reuse gloves between patients. Further, handwashing is
strongly encouraged after removal of gloves.

PMID: 3136685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Sep 1;109(5):383-8.

The influence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on antibody
responses to influenza vaccines.

Nelson KE(1), Clements ML, Miotti P, Cohn S, Polk BF.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore,
Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To ascertain whether subjects infected with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) generally develop protective hemagglutination
inhibition antibody responses to inactivated influenza vaccines.
DESIGN: Prospective study of 104 persons before and after immunization.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic and hospital ward.
PATIENTS: Persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (n = 25),
AIDS-related complex (n = 14), and HIV-seropositive men with only lymphadenopathy
or no symptoms (n = 27). Controls were HIV-seronegative homosexual men (n = 22)
and HIV-seronegative heterosexuals (n = 16).
INTERVENTIONS: Subjects were immunized with inactivated vaccines containing 15
micrograms of each of the following influenza virus hemagglutinins: A/Taiwan/1/86
(HINI), A/Mississippi/1/85 (H3N2), A/Chile/1/83 (HINI), and B/Ann Arbor/1/86.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Fourfold or greater antibody responses occurred
less frequently in subjects with HIV infections than in HIV-seronegative
controls. Protective levels (1:64 or greater) of hemagglutination inhibition
antibodies were attained by 94% to 100% of HIV-seronegative controls, 52% to 89% 
of HIV-seropositive asymptomatic subjects, and 13% to 50% of subjects with AIDS
or AIDS-related complex. No increase in the prevalence or level of serum HIV p24 
antigen or clinical deterioration was detected among HIV-infected persons after
influenza immunization.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the poor antibody responses to influenza vaccines among
HIV-infected subjects, even in many with no or minimal symptoms, alternative
strategies for preventing influenza, such as booster doses of influenza vaccine, 
prophylaxis with amantidine, or both should be considered.

PMID: 2970238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):139-52.

Quality assurance in general administration.

Westcott W.

Author information: 
Cumberland Area Health Service.

OBJECTIVE: To describe ways of introducing quality assurance activities in the
general administration areas of hospital management.
METHOD: Descriptive review.
RESULTS: Quality assurance activities can be carried out in the area of general
administration. It cannot be done in a vacuum, however, as the work which one
department does will always have an effect on another department.

PMID: 3228394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):131-8.

Utilisation review of radiation oncology practice.

Shepherd J(1), Yuile P, Wilson RH, Anderson B.

Author information: 
(1)Radiation Oncology Centre Perth, Sydney/Melbourne.

OBJECTIVE: To collect data on the operation of two private radiation oncology
practices which operate linear accelerators in order to compare their patterns of
practice with that of the practice of a public teaching hospital radiation
oncology department.
METHOD: Retrospective review of practice records and collection of data on the
utilisation of the respective radiation oncology practices.
RESULTS: Patient data was analysed to provide a "summarised" profile of treatment
of the major cancers, by primary site, for each practice. Problems were
encountered in adapting existing records at the various centres in order to
obtain compatible data for comparison. The study demonstrated the need for
adequate and consistent data to be collected by Australian radiation oncology
facilities so that valid comparisons of practice patterns can be undertaken.

PMID: 3228393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):117-23.

A comparison of patients in private and public psychiatric facilities.

Goldney RD(1), Costain WF, Jackson DE, Spence ND.

Author information: 
(1)Dibden Research Unit, Glenside Hospital, Eastwood, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To compare hospitalised patients in private and public facilities.
METHOD: Retrospective medical record review of 100 patients admitted
consecutively to both a private psychiatric hospital and a public facility in
South Australia in January, 1985.
RESULTS: There is a paucity of data about privately treated patients with
psychiatric illness. Although several studies have suggested that patients
treated in private are similar to those seen at public facilities, thus
challenging some of the myths about private practice, a recent Australian study
emphasised the differences between private and publicly treated hospitalised
patients. The present comparison of hospitalised patients in private and public
hospitals, whilst demonstrating some differences, was more marked by the
similarities in clinical features. The relevance of the different results, the
manner in which they may be interpreted, and the implications for administrative 
decisions which may affect patients with psychiatric illness are discussed.

PMID: 3228392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):108-16.

Attitudes towards psychiatric hospitalisation: a comparison of involuntary and
voluntary patients.

Spence ND(1), Goldney RD, Costain WF.

Author information: 
(1)Dibden Research Unit, Glenside Hospital, Eastwood, S.A.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the attitudes towards hospitalisation of both voluntary
and involuntary patients admitted to a state psychiatric hospital.
METHOD: Interviews of 100 patients admitted consecutively between September 1983 
and June 1984.
RESULTS: Although patients who were involuntarily admitted initially reported
unfavourable attitudes, subsequent to admission they had similar opinions
regarding their hospitalisation to those of voluntary patients. This "consumer
survey" lends some confidence to the view that compulsory detention and admission
is not irrevocably perceived as punitive by patients. These results provide
further data which counter the sometimes extreme advocates of the view that
compulsory admission and treatment of patients with psychiatric illness is never 
acceptable.

PMID: 3228391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):102-7.

A prospective study of the incidence of urinary incontinence in an acute care
teaching hospital and its implications on future service development.

Fonda D(1), Nickless R, Roth R.

Author information: 
(1)Aged and Extended Care Department (AECD), Repatriation General Hospital,
Heidelberg, Victoria.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incidence of urinary incontinence and indwelling
catheter use.
METHOD: A prospective study of 627 consecutive admissions to an acute care
teaching hospital over a 4-week period.
RESULTS: At least one episode of urinary incontinence was experienced by 145
patients (23.4 per cent of all admissions) with 28 per cent of these having
urinary incontinence lasting more than 10 days. Patients with urinary
incontinence had a significantly greater age, mean length of stay and overall
mortality compared with the total hospital inpatient population. During this
survey, 7 per cent of all inpatients suffered from at least one episode of faecal
incontinence, with the mean duration of faecal incontinence being 5.4 days. The
major discriminating findings were from the data of patients with urinary
incontinence for longer than 10 days. These patients had a longer length of stay 
(47 days compared with 17 days for patients with urinary incontinence 10 days)
and poorer outcome (28 per cent went to nursing homes and 50% returned home
compared with 7 per cent and 81 per cent respectively for pts with incontinence
less than 10 days). Patients on medical wards and those with confusion or poor
mobility fared disproportionately worse. After 10 days of incontinence, only 59
per cent of these patients had a rectal examination; and 90 per cent a urine
specimen for culture. The interpretation and implication of these findings will
be discussed particularly as it related to future planning for continence
services and the development of clinical nurses with knowledge of urinary
incontinence.

PMID: 3228390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Sep;8(30):124-30.

Quality assurance in residences for people with a disability.

Bramston P(1), Harris B.

Author information: 
(1)New England Region, NSW Department of Health, Tamworth, NSW.

OBJECTIVE: To review the quality of service in 7 residences for people with a
disability administered by the NSW Department of Health in the New England
Region.
METHOD: Evaluation of each residence by an evaluation team using an evaluation
package incorporating three approaches to assessment: process measures,
goal-oriented outcome measures, and interviews or questionnaires.
RESULTS: This comprehensive review of the 7 residences showed that high standards
had been set throughout the New England Region and that the evaluation package
was a powerful tool for staff keen to improve the lifestyle of people with a
disability. Some of the notable changes made as a direct result of the evaluation
included additional staff for recreation and leisure; more flexible
administrative control from local hospitals; increased staff consistency in home 
routine training; and increased community integration programming.

PMID: 2976271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Immunology. 1988 Sep;65(1):107-12.

Short-term lymphokine stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells
generates cytolytic activity against endothelial cells: involvement of natural
killer cells.

Miltenburg AM(1), Meijer-Paape ME, Daha MR, Paul LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

We previously reported that incubation of human peripheral blood mononuclear
cells (PBMC) for 5 days with T-cell growth factor (TCGF) resulted in
lymphokine-activated killer activity against endothelial cells (EC). In this
paper we report on the effects of short-term incubation of PBMC with lymphokines.
We show that incubation of PBMC with lymphokines during an 18-hr period is
sufficient to generate a strong cytolytic response against EC. The cytolytic
capacity of the effector cells was directly dependent on the dose of lymphokine
added during the induction phase. When PBMC were separated into adherent and
non-adherent cells, the non-adherent fraction could be induced to lytic activity 
against EC, whereas the adherent cells could not. When PBMC were separated, using
2-amino-ethylisothiouronium bromide hydrobromide-treated sheep red blood cells
(AET-SRBC), into T- and non-T-cell fractions, the latter fraction could be
induced to lyse EC. TCGF-induced cell-mediated EC lysis could not be inhibited
using anti-T3 nor anti-LFA-1 antibodies. Lysis of EC by TCGF-stimulated effector 
cells was strongly inhibited by the addition of unlabelled K562 target cells,
whereas cold OKT3 hybridoma cells did not exert such an effect.IN CONCLUSION: the
kinetics of the induction of lytic activity against EC, as well as the cell
separation experiments, suggest that short-term-activated NK cells may lyse EC.
This hypothesis was confirmed using monoclonal antibody and cold target cell
analysis.

PMCID: PMC1385027
PMID: 3263311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1988 Sep;70(8):1209-17.

Meniscal repair using an exogenous fibrin clot. An experimental study in dogs.

Arnoczky SP(1), Warren RF, Spivak JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Orthopaedics, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York,
N.Y. 10021.

To evaluate the ability of a fibrin clot to stimulate and support a reparative
response in the avascular portion of the meniscus, two-millimeter-diameter
full-thickness lesions in the avascular portion of the medial meniscus of twelve 
adult dogs were filled with an exogenous fibrin clot that had been prepared from 
each animal. The healing response was then examined using histology and
autoradiography with 35SO4 at intervals from one week to six months. The defects 
that had been filled with a fibrin clot healed through a proliferation of fibrous
connective tissue that eventually modulated into fibrocartilaginous tissue. The
fibrin clot appeared to act as a chemotactic and mitogenic stimulus for
reparative cells and to provide a scaffolding for the reparative process. The
origin of these reparative cells was not determined in this study, but they were 
thought to arise from the synovial membrane as well as the adjacent meniscal
tissue. Control defects remained empty. While the reparative tissue was grossly
and histologically different from the normal adjacent meniscal tissue, it was
morphologically similar to the reparative tissue that was previously observed in 
the vascular area of the meniscus.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The ability of an exogenous
fibrin clot to stimulate and support a reparative response in the avascular
portion of the meniscus may represent a potential method of avascular meniscal
repair.

PMID: 3417706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1988 Sep;70(8):1201-8.

Porous-coated femoral components in a canine model for revision arthroplasty.

Roberson JR(1), Spector M, Baggett MA, Kita K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30322.

Six dogs had a total hip arthroplasty during which the femoral component was
coated with methacrylate and inserted in the femoral canal, after the canal had
been reamed to a larger diameter than that of the femoral stem (including the
coating). Thus, the implant was loose and motion was present between it and the
femur in each animal. Five dogs had a revision to a prosthesis with a porous
polysulfone-coated stem. This prosthesis was not cemented in place. One dog was
killed before the revision for the purpose of histological examination. Although 
bone was present in the porous surface of all five stems at the revision, the
amount was scant in three.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A model is described for the study 
of cemented hip-replacement prostheses that have failed. Although variable
amounts of ingrowth of bone were observed after the revision to the porous-coated
prostheses without bone cement, further study is needed to determine whether
adequate ingrowth of bone occurs in this model.

PMID: 3417705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1988 Sep;70(8):1182-91.

Biomechanical analysis of anterior and posterior instrumentation systems after
corpectomy. A calf-spine model.

Gurr KR(1), McAfee PC, Shih CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore.

To simulate the spinal instability that is found clinically after anterior
corpectomy for the treatment of a fracture or a neoplasm, twelve fresh calf-spine
segments, each containing five motion segments, were destabilized using a
complete anterior corpectomy at the third lumbar level and anterior discectomies 
at the second and third and the third and fourth lumbar levels. Mechanical
non-destructive cyclical testing in axial compression, rotation, and flexion was 
performed on each spinal segment after stabilization was accomplished. The three 
anterior-stabilization constructs that were compared were: (1) iliac strut
grafting, (2) polymethylmethacrylate and anterior Harrington-rod instrumentation 
(the technique of Siegal and Siegal), and (3) the Kaneda anterior device. After
anterior iliac-crest strut grafting, four types of posterior instrumentation were
also tested sequentially: (1) Harrington distraction rods, (2) Luque rectangular 
instrumentation, (3) Cotrel-Dubousset transpedicular instrumentation, and (4)
Steffee transpedicular screws and plates. Rotation, torque, axial displacement,
and axial loads were measured during loading across the whole spinal segment
between the grip points. Using an anterior extensometer, intervertebral
displacement at the second, third, and fourth lumbar levels, and thus across the 
corpectomy defect at the third lumbar level, was recorded "on line" during
testing in flexion and axial load. By recording the intervertebral displacement, 
the efficacy of each spinal construct in minimizing motion across the corpectomy 
defect could be quantified. The value for one-way analysis of variance for axial 
intervertebral displacement across the site of the third lumbar corpectomy was F 
= 10.5, p less than 0.001. The value for one-way analysis of variance for
flexural intervertebral displacement across the corpectomy defect was F = 21.1, p
less than 0.001. Homogeneous subsets of rigidity for torsional stiffness revealed
that the least rigid constructs were iliac grafting alone, Harrington-rod
instrumentation, and Luque rectangular instrumentation. The most rigid constructs
were the anterior Kaneda device, transpedicular Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation,
and Steffee screws and plates.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: After corpectomy, spinal
reconstructive surgery can restore axial, torsional, and flexural rigidity to
normal levels. These experimental conclusions applied to the acute restoration of
stability, rather than to rigidity after long-term cyclical loading. Using the
most rigid anterior system, the Kaneda device, the fixation extended only one
vertebral level cephalad and one level caudad to the corpectomy defect.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3417703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1988 Sep;96(3):423-6.

The perioperative fate of residual gradients after repair of discrete subaortic
stenosis and time-related blood levels of catecholamines.

Ziskind Z(1), Goor DA, Peleg E, Mohr R, Lusky A, Smolinsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Chaim Sheba Medical Center,
Tel Hashomer, Israel.

The fate of the residual peak systolic left ventricular-aortic gradient was
studied perioperatively in 14 patients with membranous discrete subaortic
stenosis. In nine (group A) the initial postrepair left ventricular-aortic
gradient was greater than 35 mm Hg (mean 56.8 +/- 13.4), and in five (group B)
there was no significant postoperative gradient (mean 15.3 +/- 3.2 mm Hg). The
operation included membranectomy and myectomy. Peak left ventricular-aortic
pressure gradient, endogenous levels of norepinephrine, peak rate of rise of left
ventricular pressure, cardiac index, systemic vascular resistance, heart rate,
and central venous pressure were recorded at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass
and in 3-hour intervals for the next 9 hours. In group A during that period there
was a 67% reduction in peak systolic left ventricular-aortic gradient (from 56.8 
+/- 13.4 to 18 +/- 14 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). Concomitant reduction in the
initial endogenous norepinephrine level was observed (from 982.1 +/- 181 to 422.6
+/- 109 pg/ml, p less than 0.001). A consistent linear relationship between
norepinephrine levels and peak systolic left ventricular-aortic gradient was
found (r = 0.78). Systolic left ventricular pressure decreased from 174.2 +/-
24.8 to 113.8 +/- 14.7 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Marked reduction in peak rate
of rise of left ventricular pressure (from 3455 +/- 636 to 2161 +/- 680 mm
Hg/sec, p less than 0.001) was observed. Cardiac index increased and systemic
vascular resistance decreased during the study period (from 2.11 +/- 0.2 to 3.07 
+/- 0.26 L/min, p less than 0.001, and from 2172 +/- 331 to 1233 +/- 202
dynes/sec/cm-5, p less than 0.001, respectively). There were no significant
changes in heart rate (p = not significant) and central venous pressure p = not
significant).CONCLUSION: Some of the residual perioperative left
ventricular-aortic gradients in patients with discrete subaortic stenosis
undergoing repairs are dynamic and transient, and are probably related to
increased postoperative sympathetic activity.

PMID: 3411987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Sep;89(9):1410-3.

[Pathophysiology of bone disorder after total gastrectomy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama M(1), Hsu-Chang CY, Sato Y, Katamura H, Tsuchiya S.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Yokohama City University,
Japan.

Sixty two total gastrectomized patients were studied in serum biochemistry, bone 
microdensitometry, Calcium infusion test and clinical symptoms related to bone
disorder. Thirty total gastrectomized Wistar rats were studied in food-intake
amount, serum biochemistry, bone histological changes and intestinal absorption
of 45Ca. I. Clinical: 63% of the patients showed bone abnormality by
microdensitometry, and 52% showed hypocalcemia and 47% showed high A1-P. Urinary 
excretion of calcium in bone disordered patients was below 28% by calcium
infusion test, which suggested that the change of bone seemed to be osteomalacia.
II.EXPERIMENT: The longer of time after gastrectomy, the thinner of cortex and
lesser of trabeculation was observed in femoral bone of rats. Food-intake, serum 
calcium and vitamin D levels decreased, but on the other hand, the lipid content 
in feces increased, and disturbance of intestinal 45Ca absorption was marked in
total gastrectomized rats.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. After total gastrectomy, bone disorder was observed in 63% of
patients and in all of rats. 2. The longer after operation, the worse of the bone
change. 3. It resembled osteomalacia rather than osteoporosis. 4. Vitamin D and
calcium malabsorption due to low food intake and fatty diarrhea may be the major 
etiologies.

PMID: 3226393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Sep;89(9):1359-62.

[Metabolic and nutritional support in severely burned patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Hasebe M(1), Suzuki H, Mori E, Matsuda H, Kobayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Trauma and Critical Care Center, Teikyo University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

Proper metabolic and nutritional support is an important treatment modality in
severely burned patients. We examined the effect of branched-chain amino acid
(BCAA) enriched TPN on metabolism of burned rats. A scald injury (30% BSA) was
produced in rats. The rats, after resuscitated with saline for 24 hr, were
divided into 3 groups.CONTROL GROUP: received saline. Group B: received TPN with 
BCAA enriched solution (45% BCAA). Group C: received TPN with conventional amino 
acid solution (21.3% BCAA). Both of these TPN solutions were isocaloric and
isonitrogenous. Rats of each group were administered TPN solution or saline for
further 48 hr. The metabolites in the liver and muscle were measured. Rapid and
marked decrease of levels of metabolites such as adenine nucleotides, glycogen,
G-6-P, protein and RNA/DNA was observed in the liver and muscle of the rats
during fluid resuscitation. The rats of group B showed significant recoveries in 
all of these parameters after administration of the TPN, as compared with those
of group C. On the other hand, progressive metabolic deterioration was recognized
in the rats of control group. These results indicate beneficial effects of BCAA
enriched TPN on energy and protein metabolism in scald injury.

PMID: 3147364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. BMJ. 1988 Aug 20-27;297(6647):519-22.

Postmenopausal oestrogen treatment and stroke: a prospective study.

Paganini-Hill A(1), Ross RK, Henderson BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California School of
Medicine, Los Angeles 90033-0800.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether post-menopausal oestrogen use affects the
risk of dying from stroke.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire survey to elicit details of oestrogen replacement
therapy and potential risk modifiers.
SETTING: Californian retirement community.
PARTICIPANTS: All 22,781 residents of community (white, affluent, well educated) 
contacted by mail and phone; 13,986 (61%, median age 73) responded, including
8882 women. These formed cohort for mortality follow up, using health department 
death certification. Only 13 lost to follow up, apparently not deceased, but 34
excluded because no information on oestrogen use.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
END POINT: Mortality rate from stroke compared in women who did and did not
receive oestrogen replacement treatment.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Age adjusted mortality rates were computed using
internal standard and four age groups. By January 1987 there had been 1019 deaths
in the cohort. Twenty out of 4962 women who used oestrogen replacement treatment 
died from stroke compared with 43 out of 3845 women who did not use oestrogen
replacement treatment: relative risk 0.53, 95% confidence interval 0.31 to 0.91. 
Protection was found in all age groups except the youngest and was unaffected by 
adjustment for possible confounding factors (hypertension, smoking, alcohol, body
mass index, exercise).
CONCLUSIONS: Oestrogen replacement treatment protects against death due to
stroke.

PMCID: PMC1840341
PMID: 3139181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. BMJ. 1988 Aug 20-27;297(6647):511-4.

Comparison of mastectomy with tamoxifen for treating elderly patients with
operable breast cancer.

Robertson JF(1), Todd JH, Ellis IO, Elston CW, Blamey RW.

Author information: 
(1)City Hospital, Nottingham.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Comparison of tamoxifen and mastectomy in treatment of breast
cancer in elderly patients.
DESIGN: Randomised trial of treatment of operable breast cancer by wedge
mastectomy or tamoxifen, with median follow up 24 and 25 months respectively
(range 1-63).
SETTING: University hospital; most patients from primary catchment area.
PATIENTS: 135 consecutive patients with breast cancer aged over 70 with operable 
tumours (less than 5 cm maximum diameter); 68 were allocated to tamoxifen group
and 67 to mastectomy group. Histological diagnosis by biopsy. Two incorrect
randomisations in each group. Patient characteristics similar in the two groups
and all under care of one surgical team.
INTERVENTIONS: Mastectomy group received wedge mastectomy plus excision of
symptomatic axillary lymph nodes. Tamoxifen group received continuous treatment
with tamoxifen 20 mg twice daily. Patients in tamoxifen group received wedge
mastectomy if there was sign of local progression. Those in mastectomy group
received further excision or radiotherapy for locoregional recurrence and when
local treatments had been exhausted or metastatic disease diagnosed they received
tamoxifen.
END POINT: Treatment efficacy was assessed by local control of disease and by
survival.
MAIN RESULTS: Mortality from metastatic cancer in tamoxifen group was 7 (10.6%)
and in mastectomy group 10 (15.3%) (NS). There was no difference in survival
between the two groups. In mastectomy group 70% remained alive and free of local 
recurrence at 24 months; in tamoxifen group only 47% remained alive and free of
local progression. In mastectomy group locoregional recurrence occurred in 16
patients and metastatic disease in 13; in tamoxifen group locoregional
progression occurred in 29 patients and metastatic disease in seven.
CONCLUSIONS: As a high proportion of patients treated with tamoxifen eventually
required surgery treatment of elderly patients with breast cancer should include 
mastectomy. Optimum treatment may include both mastectomy and tamoxifen.

PMCID: PMC1840371
PMID: 3139179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. BMJ. 1988 Aug 20-27;297(6647):544-7.

Reduction in hospital readmission stay of elderly patients by a community based
hospital discharge scheme: a randomised controlled trial.

Townsend J(1), Piper M, Frank AO, Dyer S, North WR, Meade TW.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Epidemiology, Northwick Park Hospital, Harrow,
Middlesex.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare a community support scheme using care attendants with
standard aftercare for their effects on independence and morale of elderly
patients discharged from hospital and on their use of health and social services.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled study of cohort of patients over 75 discharged to
their own homes.
SETTING: District general hospital and community.
PATIENTS: Total of 903 patients (mean age 82, 25% over 85).
INTERVENTIONS: Total of 464 patients received support from care attendants on
first day at home and for up to 12 hours a week for two weeks. Support comprised 
practical care, help with rehabilitation, and organising social help. The
remaining 439 patients received standard aftercare.
END POINT: Difference between two groups of 7% in hospital readmission rates or
one point on activities of daily living scale (power 80%, significance level 5%).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Three months after the initial discharge 763
patients were interviewed (84%). There were no significant differences between
the two groups in physical independence (activities of daily living scale), in
measures of morale (Philadelphia scale), or in death rates. Hospital readmission 
rates within 18 months of discharge, however, were significantly higher in the
control group and they spent more days in hospital (mean; control group 30.6
days, support group 17.1 days; p = 0.014). Of the patients living alone who were 
followed up for 18 months 21 (15%) receiving standard aftercare were readmitted
more than twice compared with 6 (5%) supported by care attendants (p less than
0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: If the findings are confirmed, and the policy extended to all
patients over the age of 75 living alone, an average health district might expect
either to save about 23 hospital beds at a net annual saving of about pounds
220,000 in the short term or to increase available beds by this number.

PMCID: PMC1840357
PMID: 2844356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Aug 15;109(4):267-73.

Malignant pheochromocytoma: effective treatment with a combination of
cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine.

Averbuch SD(1), Steakley CS, Young RC, Gelmann EP, Goldstein DS, Stull R, Keiser 
HR.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, Uniformed Services, University of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and toxicity of combination
chemotherapy in patients with advanced, malignant pheochromocytoma.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, single-arm trial.
SETTING: Governmental medical referral center.
PATIENTS: Fourteen patients with malignant pheochromocytoma confirmed by
histologic tests. All patients had metastatic disease and elevated urinary
catecholamine secretion.
INTERVENTIONS: After optimization of antihypertensive therapy, patients received 
cyclophosphamide, 750 mg/m2 body surface area on day 1; vincristine, 1.4 mg/m2 on
day 1, and dacarbazine, 600 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2, every 21 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide,
vincristine, and dacarbazine produced a complete and partial response rate of 57%
(median duration, 21 months; range, 7 to more than 34). Complete and partial
biochemical responses were seen in 79% of patients (median duration, more than 22
months; range, 6 to more than 35). All responding patients had objective
improvement in performance status and blood pressure. Toxicity included expected 
hematologic, neurologic, and gastrointestinal effects of chemotherapy without
serious sequelae. There were four minor hypotensive episodes and one minor
hypertensive episode.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and
dacarbazine is effective for advanced malignant pheochromocytoma. Urinary
catecholamines are useful to ascertain biochemical response to therapy.

PMID: 3395037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Aug 15;109(4):318-23.

Syndromes of Vibrio vulnificus infections. Clinical and epidemiologic features in
Florida cases, 1981-1987.

Klontz KC(1), Lieb S, Schreiber M, Janowski HT, Baldy LM, Gunn RA.

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical and epidemiologic features of Vibrio
vulnificus infections.
DESIGN: Case series based on notifiable disease report forms and patient medical 
records.
SETTING: Cases reported to the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative
Services from 1981 to 1987.
PATIENTS: Sixty-two patients with V. vulnificus infection.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The three clinical syndromes found were primary
septicemia (38 patients), wound infections (17 patients), and gastrointestinal
illness without septicemia or wound infections (7 patients). Mortality rate was
highest for patients with primary septicemia (55%; 95% CI, 38 to 71) and
intermediate for wound infections (24%; 95% CI, 8 to 51): no deaths occurred in
those with gastrointestinal illness. Common characteristics and exposures in
patients with these syndromes included recent history of raw oyster consumption
for primary septicemia and gastrointestinal illness, liver disease for primary
septicemia, and either having a preexisting wound or sustaining a wound in
contact with seawater for wound infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians should ask about marine exposures in patients with
underlying medical conditions, especially liver disease, who present with
unexplained febrile illness, and should start appropriate therapy promptly.

PMID: 3260760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Aug 15;109(4):280-7.

Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole compared with pentamidine for treatment of
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. A
prospective, noncrossover study.

Sattler FR(1), Cowan R, Nielsen DM, Ruskin J.

Author information: 
(1)Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Los Angeles, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To ascertain the efficacy and toxicity of
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or pentamidine when either is given alone during
the entire treatment period for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, noncrossover comparison of
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole with pentamidine. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
dosage was adjusted to maintain serum trimethoprim at 5 to 8 micrograms/mL.
Pentamidine dosage was reduced by 30% to 50% for an absolute rise in serum
creatinine of more than 88 mumol/L (1 mg/dL).
SETTING: Tertiary care hospital and AIDS clinic.
PATIENTS: Thirty-six patients were treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and
34 with pentamidine. Pretreatment clinical features and laboratory test results
were similar in the two groups.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-six recipients of
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and 33 recipients of pentamidine completed therapy 
without crossover. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole caused a rash (44%) and anemia
(39%) more frequently (P less than or equal to 0.03, whereas pentamidine caused
nephrotoxicity (64%), hypotension (27%), or hypoglycemia (21%) more frequently (P
less than or equal to 0.01). The (A - a)DO2 improved by greater than 1.3 kPa (10 
mmHg) 8 days earlier for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole recipients (95% CI for the
difference in response, -1 to 17; P = 0.04). Thirty-one (86%) patients treated
with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and 20 (61%) with pentamidine survived and
were without respiratory support at completion of treatment (95% CI for the
difference in response, 5% to 45%; P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients with AIDS and P. carinii pneumonia, successful
treatment with a single agent is possible. Toxicity associated with the two
standard treatments is rarely life-threatening and may be diminished if the
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole dosage is modified by pharmacokinetic monitoring
and the pentamidine dosage is reduced for nephrotoxicity. Oxygenation improved
more quickly and survival was better with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.

PMID: 3260759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. BMJ. 1988 Aug 13;297(6646):448-50.

Intravenous beta agonist in severe acute asthma.

Cheong B(1), Reynolds SR, Rajan G, Ward MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Llandough Hospital, Penarth, South
Glamorgan.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether salbutamol is more effective in treating
severe asthma when given intravenously or by inhalation.
DESIGN: Randomised trial of short term response to intravenous versus nebulised
salbutamol in acute severe asthma.
SETTING: District general hospital (secondary care centre).
PARTICIPANTS: 76 patients aged 16-70 admitted to hospital with acute severe
asthma (peak expiratory flow rate less than 50% of predicted) during study
period. Five withdrawn because of adverse effects of treatment or non-response.
Of remaining 71, 34 allocated to nebuliser group and 37 to intravenous treatment 
group. Patients with history of cardiovascular disease or recent corticosteroid
or intravenous bronchodilator treatment excluded. Admission characteristics
similar in the two groups.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients given 5 mg nebulised salbutamol on admission before
randomisation plus 200 mg hydrocortisone bolus intravenously and 35% inspired
oxygen throughout. Nebuliser group received two more 5 mg doses of nebuliser
salbutamol at 30 minutes and 2 hours; intravenous group received 4 hours'
continuous salbutamol infusion (12 micrograms/min) starting at 30 minutes plus
supplementary intravenous potassium chloride. No other bronchodilators used.
ENDPOINT: Change in peak expiratory flow rate over 4 hours.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Peak expiratory flow rate improved more in
intravenous group (25.2%) than in nebuliser group (14.3%) (p less than 0.01, 95% 
confidence interval 2.4 to 19.1%). Tachycardia caused two withdrawals from
intravenous group; non-response caused three withdrawals from nebuliser group.
CONCLUSIONS: Intravenous salbutamol is more effective than nebulised salbutamol
in acute severe asthma but may have unacceptable cardiovascular effects.

PMCID: PMC1833883
PMID: 3139138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Aktuelle Traumatol. 1988 Aug;18(4):163-7.

[Arthrotomy--a prearthrotic factor?].

[Article in German]

Lukoschek M(1), Burr DB, Boyd RD, Schaffler MB, Radin EL.

Author information: 
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Light-microscopic and electron microscopic findings of the synovial membrane and 
cartilage were compared, of rabbit knee joints on which arthrotomy and surgical
induced instabilisation operation were performed. The joint opening was followed 
by an inflammation of the synovial membrane, and cartilage changes were similar
in joints of arthrotomy and surgically induced instability.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: To
prevent joints from further damage after arthrotomy or arthroscopy, joints should
be spared from weight bearing during the time of synovial inflammation.

PMID: 2905580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):217-20.

Pituitary gland growth during normal pregnancy: an in vivo study using magnetic
resonance imaging.

Gonzalez JG(1), Elizondo G, Saldivar D, Nanez H, Todd LE, Villarreal JZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Monterrey, Mexico.

PURPOSE: Autopsy studies have shown that pregnancy results in physiologic
pituitary enlargement. We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to corroborate
those findings in vivo.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Based on gestational age, 32 normal primigravid patients
were divided into three groups: Group I (n = 10), less than 12 gestational weeks;
Group II (n = 11), 13 to 26 gestational weeks; and Group III (n = 11), 27
gestational weeks or more. The pituitary dimensions and volumes in these groups
were compared with those in 20 healthy nulliparous women (control group).
RESULTS: MRI measurements showed a significant increase in pituitary volume in
Groups I, II, and III when compared with the control group (p less than 0.001).
Furthermore, there was an increase in pituitary volume between Groups I and II
and between Groups II and III, although the former was not statistically
significant (p greater than 0.05). At the end of pregnancy, the hypophysis had
increased 2.6 mm in vertical, anteroposterior, and transversal dimensions, with
an overall increase of 136 percent when compared with that of the control group.
CONCLUSION: Baseline measurements of the normal enlargement of the pituitary
gland that occurs during pregnancy could prove useful when evaluating pregnant
patients with suspected pituitary tumors or lymphocytic hypophysitis.

PMID: 3400697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):213-6.

Effect of early menopause on bone mass in normal women and patients with
osteoporosis.

Seeman E(1), Cooper ME, Hopper JL, Parkinson E, McKay J, Jerums G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

PURPOSE: Early menopause is widely regarded as a risk factor for osteoporosis.
The aim of this study was to determine whether this risk is conferred by a lower 
bone mass.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred thirteen normal postmenopausal women and 55
women with postmenopausal osteoporosis (vertebral fractures) underwent bone mass 
measurements at the lumbar spine, femoral neck, and midshaft using dual-photon
absorptiometry. To examine the effect of early menopause, postmenopausal normal
women were stratified according to whether menopause occurred before or after the
age of 50 years. Patients with osteoporosis were stratified in the same way.
RESULTS: Patients with osteoporosis had menopause at an earlier age than control 
subjects, but the difference in bone mass between the patients with osteoporosis 
and the control subjects could not be attributed to this earlier age at
menopause. Furthermore, within the osteoporotic patient group, those with early
menopause did not have lower bone mass than those with normal age at menopause.
Similarly, within the normal subject group, those with early menopause did not
have lower bone mass than those with normal age at menopause.
CONCLUSION: Patients with osteoporosis have lower bone mass, which is independent
of the age at menopause. Although a small effect (less than or equal to 5
percent) of early menopause on bone mass cannot be entirely excluded, these data 
suggest that the amount of bone lost following menopause is the same irrespective
of the age at which menopause occurs. If early menopause is a risk factor for
osteoporosis, the risk is not conferred by a bone mass substantially lower than
predicted had menopause occurred later, but may be related to the duration of
exposure to minimal trauma at low bone mass.

PMID: 3400696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):197-202.

Anti-amiodarone antibodies: detection and relationship to the development of side
effects.

Pichler WJ(1), Schindler L, Stäubli M, Stadler BM, de Weck AL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Immunology, Inselspital, Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: It has become evident in the past few years that amiodarone, a powerful 
antiarrhythmic agent, induces considerable side effects. These may be due to an
amiodarone-elicited lipid storage disease and to the iodine content of
amiodarone, but might also be causally related to amiodarone-induced immune
reactions. The latter possibility prompted us to develop a sensitive
anti-amiodarone antibody detection assay based on the immunodot technique.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sera were obtained from 10 untreated control subjects and
33 patients receiving amiodarone. Using serum dilutions of 1:500 and 1:1,000, the
lower detection limit was 0.3 microgram/ml of anti-amiodarone antibodies as
calculated from a simultaneously performed IgG standard curve.
RESULTS: Screening of sera from the untreated control subjects and
amiodarone-treated patients revealed that the untreated subjects had no
anti-amiodarone antibodies, that only one of 16 patients without clinical side
effects had elevated anti-amiodarone antibodies, but that seven of 12 patients
with amiodarone-induced thyroid disease and four of five patients with other side
effects had elevated anti-amiodarone antibody titers (1.2 to 2.5 micrograms/ml). 
The combined evaluation of anti-amiodarone antibody titers and cumulative dose
was found to be a highly reliable indicator of side effects, as all patients with
more than 100-g cumulative dose of amiodarone and more than 0.6 microgram/ml of
anti-amiodarone antibodies had side effects.
CONCLUSION: The detection of anti-amiodarone antibodies in patients with
amiodarone-elicited side effects underscores the possible contribution of
immunologic reactions to the development of certain side effects.

PMID: 3400695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):189-93.

Reversibility by dipyridamole of thallium-201 myocardial scan defects in patients
with sarcoidosis.

Tellier P(1), Paycha F, Antony I, Nitenberg A, Valeyre D, Foult JM, Battesti JP.

Author information: 
(1)Service of Nuclear Medicine, Chu Xavier Bichat, Paris, France.

PURPOSE: In order to clarify the significance of anginal pain and myocardial
thallium-201 scan defects in cardiac sarcoidosis, the pharmacologic effect of
dipyridamole on myocardial perfusion was assessed by planar thallium-201
myocardial scintigraphy in patients with sarcoidosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy was performed at rest 
and after 0.56 mg/kg intravenous dipyridamole during four minutes in 16 patients 
with sarcoidosis. The myocardial scan (45-degree and 70-degree left anterior
oblique, and anterior views) was divided into 15 segments. Results were evaluated
by the number of segmental defects and with a global perfusion score (from 0 to
60) by a semi-quantitative index depending on the size and severity of myocardial
thallium-201 defects.
RESULTS: Thirteen of the 16 patients showed partial or total reversion of their
thallium-201 defects on redistribution scanning either at rest or after
dipyridamole. The mean (+/- SD) number of myocardial perfusion defects that were 
present in all the patients decreased from 5.31 +/- 1.78 at rest to 3.25 +/- 2.52
after redistribution (p less than 0.001) and to 2.19 +/- 2.10 after dipyridamole 
(p less than 0.001). The mean global perfusion score increased from 53.2 +/- 3.0 
at rest to 56.2 +/- 2.9 after redistribution (p less than 0.001) and to 57.2 +/- 
2.7 after dipyridamole (p less than 0.001). A significant correlation (r = 0.82, 
p less than 0.001) was found between the increase of global perfusion score on
redistribution and after dipyridamole.
CONCLUSION: The reversibility of myocardial scan defects is a common finding in
sarcoidosis. It makes unlikely the role of scar fibrosis or extensive confluent
granulomas as a mechanism for such defects. The effect of dipyridamole suggests
the presence of reversible disorders lying at the coronary microvascular level.

PMID: 3400694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):172-6.

Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia and recurrent staphylococcal infection in
patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and AIDS-related complex.

Jacobson MA(1), Gellermann H, Chambers H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.

PURPOSE: An increased incidence of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia has recently 
been described in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
However, other risk factors for community-acquired S. aureus bacteremia
(including intravenous drug abuse and lymphedema) were present in nearly all
these AIDS-related cases of S. aureus infection. Our purpose was to review cases 
of S. aureus bacteremia that occurred in patients with AIDS or AIDS-related
complex (ARC) who did not have a recent history of intravenous drug use,
lymphatic obstruction, or neutropenia.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients at San Francisco General Hospital between October 
1984 and October 1987 with blood culture results positive for S. aureus were
identified. A review of this group revealed 22 cases of S. aureus bacteremia that
occurred in 18 patients with an underlying diagnosis of AIDS or ARC, none of whom
had a recent history of intravenous drug use, lymphedema secondary to Kaposi's
sarcoma, or neutropenia.
RESULTS: An intravenous catheter was the single most important risk factor for S.
aureus bacteremia and was identified as the source for bacteremia in 16 (73
percent) of the 22 episodes. Based on 1986 outpatient clinic records, we
calculated an incidence of S. aureus bacteremia occurring in
non-intravenous-drug-using male AIDS or ARC patients, 18 to 44 years old, that
was 5.4 episodes/1,000 patients. Although the mean duration of appropriate
antibiotic therapy was 18 days, late metastatic complications of S. aureus
bacteremia occurred in six (35 percent) of 17 AIDS/ARC patients who survived
initial antibiotic therapy.
CONCLUSION: Non-intravenous-drug-using AIDS and ARC patients (especially those
with indwelling venous catheters) appear to be at high risk for S. aureus
bacteremia, with a higher late metastatic complication rate than that reported
for recent historical control subjects.

PMID: 3400693  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):159-63.

Recurrent gram-negative bacteremia.

Mylotte JM(1), McDermott C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Buffalo, New York
14215.

PURPOSE: Recurrent gram-negative bacteremia is defined as two or more episodes of
bacteremia occurring in the same patient with an infection-free interval between 
each episode. Our purpose was to identify patients with recurrent gram-negative
bacteremia in order to define possible risk factors for its recurrence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a recently completed prospective study of all
episodes of gram-negative bacteremia at the Buffalo Veterans Administration
Center between April 1, 1984, and May 31, 1987, 35 patients with 74 episodes of
gram-negative bacteremia were identified. The following information was obtained 
from all 35 patients: age, service, date of hospital admission, date of the
bacteremia, underlying diseases, initial antimicrobial therapy, focus of
infection, the presence or absence of shock, antimicrobial susceptibility of the 
blood isolate, and outcome.
RESULTS: All 35 patients were men, had a mean age of 69 years, and all had one or
more underlying diseases; 45 percent had a malignancy. The duration of time
between a pair of episodes was four weeks or more for 74 percent of 38 pairs of
episodes. In 25 of 38 (66 percent) pairs of episodes, the focus of infection was 
the same; in 80 percent of these 25 pairs, the urinary tract was the focus.
Overall, the urinary tract was the focus of gram-negative bacteremia in almost 50
percent. Escherichia coli was the single most common organism isolated (28
percent of all episodes), followed by Proteus mirabilis (17.5 percent) and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (17.5 percent). Six of 35 (17 percent) patients died due
to gram-negative bacteremia; five of these six had a respiratory tract focus of
infection.
CONCLUSIONS: In a population of veterans, recurrent gram-negative bacteremia was 
identified in almost 10 percent of all patients with gram-negative bacteremia
during a 37-month study period. Recurrent gram-negative bacteremia most
frequently occurred in the setting of underlying malignancy with the urinary
tract as a common focus of infection. The mortality rate of 17 percent was
similar to that of all patients with gram-negative bacteremia reported in
previous studies.

PMID: 3400692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):152-8.

Progressive disseminated histoplasmosis in patients with acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Johnson PC(1), Khardori N, Najjar AF, Butt F, Mansell PW, Sarosi GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center,
Houston 77030.

PURPOSE: Progressive disseminated histoplasmosis is now diagnosed frequently in
patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) living in the central
United States. Previous review articles of AIDS have failed to mention this
infection. Herein, we describe 48 AIDS patients with progressive disseminated
histoplasmosis in an effort to better understand the clinical presentation and
diagnosis of the condition in this setting and to assess the efficacy of
antifungal chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the Houston metropolitan area, there were 66 cases of
progressive disseminated histoplasmosis among 1,300 confirmed cases of AIDS from 
January 1983 to July 1987. Of AIDS patients in East Texas with histoplasmosis, 16
patients were available for follow-up by one of us, and the histories of 32 were 
obtained by examination of hospital charts and physician records.
RESULTS: Fever, weight loss, and splenomegaly were the most common presenting
signs and symptoms, occurring in 81, 52, and 31 percent, respectively. One-third 
of the patients had hematologic abnormalities. Infiltrates on chest
roentgenograms were observed in 52 percent. Progressive disseminated
histoplasmosis was the initial manifestation of AIDS in almost three-fourths of
our patients. Biopsy and culture of the bone marrow established the diagnosis of 
progressive disseminated histoplasmosis in 69 percent. Clinical or autopsy proof 
of relapse occurred in three patients despite an initial course of more than 2 g 
of amphotericin B chemotherapy followed by ketoconazole suppression.
CONCLUSION: Progressive disseminated histoplasmosis is often the first sign of
immunodeficiency in patients with AIDS, and the diagnosis of this condition is
most often established by bone marrow biopsy and culture. Because of the
permanence of the immunodeficient state in these patients, progressive
disseminated histoplasmosis is resistant to treatment.

PMID: 3400691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):139-46.

Atheromatous renal disease.

Meyrier A(1), Buchet P, Simon P, Fernet M, Rainfray M, Callard P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Hôpital Avicenne, Bobigny, France.

PURPOSE: Atheroma as a cause of renal failure has been largely overlooked. We
wanted to report our experience with atheromatous renal disease over a 12-year
period.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Observations on 32 cases of various forms of renal failure 
in patients with atheromatous renal disease are presented. These patients had
been hypertensive for an average of 10.2 +/- 9.2 years. The length of
deterioration was an average of 17 months, and at presentation renal
insufficiency was severe, with serum creatinine levels of (mean +/- SD) 616 +/-
358 mumol/liter (6.8 +/- 4.0 mg/dl). At this stage, the clinical picture was
indistinguishable from other common causes of chronic renal failure in the
elderly. Thus, the precise diagnosis would have been overlooked without an
aggressive diagnostic workup. All patients underwent angiography and six patients
underwent renal biopsy.
RESULTS: In 22 cases, renal insufficiency was mainly due to atheromatous stenosis
of renal arteries. In six of six patients, the results of renal biopsy showed
cholesterol crystal embolism. In four additional cases, there was clinical or
histologic evidence of extrarenal cholesterol embolism. In eight, renal artery
plaques coexisted with cholesterol embolism. In two patients, renal failure was
due only to cholesterol embolism. Renal atheromatous stenoses were developing, as
shown on serial angiographies performed in five cases. In seven cases, stenoses
involved both the main trunks of renal arteries and several intrarenal branches
of too small a diameter to allow reconstructive surgery or percutaneous
transluminal angioplasty. In addition, the general condition of most patients was
so poor as to preclude surgery. Dialysis was begun in 11 patients, four other
patients died, and renal failure was managed conservatively in 11. When
undertaken, reconstructive surgery was successful in five of six patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Atheromatous renal disease is a frequent and easily overlooked cause
of chronic renal insufficiency. It is not only due to renal artery stenosis but
also to complex intrarenal lesions, with multiple stenoses of intrarenal
vasculature and cholesterol embolism. It should be diagnosed by early angiography
and renal biopsy, before the stage of multivisceral complications and at a time
when surgery can still be undertaken.

PMID: 3400690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):207-12.

A single infusion of the bisphosphonate AHPrBP (APD) as treatment of Paget's
disease of bone.

Thiébaud D(1), Jaeger P, Gobelet C, Jacquet AF, Burckhardt P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Disabling pain, skeletal deformity, or risk of joint involvement
characterize Paget's disease of bone. Because the disease often affects the
elderly, for whom compliance is a problem, we investigated therapy with a single 
intravenous infusion of amino-hydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate (AHPrBP,
previously APD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eleven patients with mild but symptomatic Paget's disease
and one patient with very severe disease were treated with AHPrBP administered as
a single intravenous infusion of 60 mg over 24 hours. Follow-up with clinical and
biochemical evaluations was performed over six months for all patients, and over 
one year for seven patients.
RESULTS: Clinical improvement and normalization of biochemical parameters were
observed in all patients except one with extremely severe disease. On average,
plasma alkaline phosphatase activity fell progressively and significantly from
256 +/- 29 U/liter (mean +/- SEM) to 97 +/- 6 U/liter after six months, and to
102 +/- 11 U/liter after one year (normal: less than 120 U/liter). Urinary
excretion of hydroxyproline decreased within seven days to normal (from 4.3 +/-
0.5 mumol/liter of glomerular filtrate [lGF] to 1.7 +/- 0.2 mumol/lGF; normal:
2.2 mumol/lGF). Thereafter, it remained within the normal range until one year
(1.8 +/- 0.2 mumol/lGF after six months and 1.9 +/- 0.3 mumol/lGF after one
year). Side effects were negligible. Two patients noted only a transient increase
in body temperature. When bone scintigraphy was repeated after six months, it
revealed a marked decrease of the activity of the disease.
CONCLUSION: Due to the important and sustained inhibition of bone resorption
induced by AHPrBP, a single infusion of 60 mg of the bisphosphonate leads to a
rapid decline in activity and a long-standing remission of moderate Paget's
disease, without significant side effects.

PMID: 3261129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):203-6.

An approach to intensive antileukemia therapy in patients with previous invasive 
aspergillosis.

Karp JE(1), Burch PA, Merz WG.

Author information: 
(1)Adult Leukemia Program, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

PURPOSE: In an attempt to decrease the risk for reactivation of life-threatening 
invasive aspergillosis (IA) during subsequent myelosuppression in patients with
previously diagnosed IA who were receiving antileukemic treatment, we evaluated
the role of intensive antifungal therapy with amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine
administered prophylactically throughout the antileukemic regimen and induced
granulocytopenia to prevent IA reactivation without compromising the intensive
chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a 30-month period, 10 patients with acute
myelogenous leukemia and primary IA developing during initial antileukemia
induction therapy and severe granulocytopenia (less than 100/mm3) underwent 14
subsequent courses of intensive marrow aplasia-producing chemotherapy during
early complete remission or at leukemia relapse. All patients had evidence of
ongoing IA healing by lung computerized tomography (CT) prior to reinstitution of
intensive chemotherapy. Nine patients receiving 13 chemotherapy courses also
received aggressive prophylactic anti-IA therapy with amphotericin B (1.0
mg/kg/day) and 5-fluorocytosine beginning at least 48 hours prior to antileukemia
therapy institution and continued until the time of granulocyte recovery.
RESULTS: All nine patients receiving aggressive antifungal therapy survived
without clinical evidence of IA reactivation. Transient radiographic evidence of 
IA reactivation during granulocytopenia was detected by lung CT during two of the
13 chemotherapy courses. In contrast, the patient who did not receive anti-IA
prophylaxis had both clinical and radiographic evidence of IA reactivation during
severe granulocytopenia and died. Anti-IA prophylaxis was achieved without
irreversible nephrotoxicity, prolonged marrow suppression, alteration of
antileukemia treatment, or negative impact on clinical outcome relative to acute 
leukemia.
CONCLUSION: This approach of antifungal prophylaxis in adults with acute leukemia
and documented primary IA occurring during initial induction chemotherapy has
been successful in preventing clinically significant IA reactivation during
subsequent granulocytopenic courses, and allows for administration of additional 
intensive antileukemia therapy.

PMID: 3165248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):221-4.

Gas exchange at a given degree of volume restriction is different in sarcoidosis 
and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Dunn TL(1), Watters LC, Hendrix C, Cherniack RM, Schwarz MI, King TE Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory
Medicine, Denver, Colorado.

PURPOSE: It is likely that the relationship between lung volume changes and gas
exchange in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and patients with
sarcoidosis is different since the two conditions vary widely in histopathology
and prognosis. Few studies, however, have examined this relationship. The goal of
this investigation was to measure diffusing capacity and gas exchange in patients
with IPF and sarcoidosis in whom the reduction of lung volume was equivalent.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In 21 patients with IPF and 20 patients with pulmonary
sarcoidosis with comparable reductions in lung volume, the single breath
diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide and gas exchange at rest and during
exercise were compared.
RESULTS: The relationship between lung volume and gas transfer differed in the
two groups of patients. Resting and exercise gas exchange tended to be relatively
normal and the diffusing capacity was higher in patients with sarcoidosis than in
those with IPF. These differences could not be attributed to disparities in race,
age, smoking habits, or the radiographic stage of sarcoidosis.
CONCLUSION: The preservation of gas exchange in sarcoidosis as opposed to IPF,
despite equivalent degrees of volume restriction, suggests that different
pathophysiologic mechanism underlie the volume loss and gas exchange defects seen
in these disorders. Furthermore, these findings suggest that diffusing capacity
may not be a sensitive indicator of pulmonary pathology in sarcoidosis since lung
volume can be altered independently of abnormalities in the diffusing capacity.

PMID: 3135751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):177-82.

Gonorrhea in women seen for routine gynecologic care: criteria for testing.

Phillips RS(1), Hanff PA, Wertheimer A, Aronson MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02215.

PURPOSE: This study was initiated to determine risk factors for Neisseria
gonorrhoeae infection of the cervix in women seen for routine care in a
hospital-based obstetrics and gynecology practice.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Extensive clinical data and cervical culture specimens for 
N. gonorrhoeae were obtained prospectively from 1,441 women between the ages of
18 and 50. Fifty clinical factors were evaluated by multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 1,441 patients tested, 25 (1.7 percent) had a positive culture
result. The majority of infected women were asymptomatic. The following five
factors were found to be associated independently with gonococcal infection: (1) 
sex with a partner who may have had gonorrhea or a urethral discharge within the 
prior three months, (2) endocervical bleeding induced by the initial swab, (3)
age at first intercourse less than or equal to 16, (4) method of payment
(Medicaid), and (5) low abdominal or pelvic pain. Race, a univariate risk factor,
was not associated with gonorrhea when these other factors were considered. The
risk of infection for women with none, one, two, or three or more of these
multivariate risk factors was 0.2, 0.8, 2.9, and 9.8 percent, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Clinical data are helpful in identifying women at risk for gonorrhea.
If resources are insufficient to evaluate all sexually active women, we suggest
routine testing based on the presence of the multivariate risk factors
identified.

PMID: 3135750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):164-71.

Prospective study of lower respiratory tract infections in an extended-care
nursing home program: potential role of oral ciprofloxacin.

Peterson PK(1), Stein D, Guay DR, Logan G, Obaid S, Gruninger R, Davies S,
Breitenbucher R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55415.

PURPOSE: Infections of the lower respiratory tract pose an important problem in
nursing homes. Despite the magnitude of this problem, few, if any, antibiotic
studies have been targeted specifically at nursing home-acquired bronchopulmonary
infections. Following the establishment of a teaching Extended-Care Nursing Home 
Program, which facilitated the early diagnosis and therapy of bronchopulmonary
infections, a comparative trial of oral ciprofloxacin and intramuscular
cefamandole was initiated in elderly patients with lower respiratory tract
infections. In addition to assessing the relative efficacy and safety of
ciprofloxacin and cefamandole, our goals were to identify problems and pitfalls
associated with conducting clinical research in this nursing home setting,
evaluate selected clinical and laboratory features of lower respiratory tract
infection in this patient population, and measure outcomes in all study groups.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a 20-month period, 40 patients with pneumonia and 20
patients with acute bronchitis were enrolled in this randomized study.
Sixty-three patients with pneumonia who were ineligible for the randomized study 
were also followed prospectively. The mean age of the 111 participants (123
cases) was 80.8 years; all patients had at least one chronic medical condition.
RESULTS: Although Streptococcus pneumoniae was the single most common isolate,
gram-negative bacteria were cultured from 81 percent of the cases that yielded
pathogens from a satisfactory sputum specimen. The in-hospital mortality rate was
strikingly low (6.5 percent), and a large majority of patients in all study
groups were discharged safely back to their nursing homes well within the
Diagnosis-Related Group length of stay.
CONCLUSION: Ciprofloxacin appeared to be as safe and effective as cefamandole in 
this nursing home program; however, additional studies are needed to determine
its role in the treatment of elderly patients with bronchopulmonary infections.

PMID: 3041830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):147-51.

Recombinant interferon alpha-2a for treatment of herpes zoster in
immunosuppressed patients with cancer.

Winston DJ(1), Eron LJ, Ho M, Pazin G, Kessler H, Pottage JC Jr, Gallagher J,
Sartiano G, Ho WG, Champlin RE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA Center for the Health Sciences 90024.

PURPOSE: Acyclovir and high doses of intramuscular leukocyte interferon have been
shown to prevent dissemination of herpes zoster in cancer patients with localized
herpes zoster. With the availability of recombinant interferon, we decided to
conduct a multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of intramuscular
recombinant interferon alpha-2a to assess its efficacy and safety in the
treatment of localized herpes zoster in immunosuppressed patients with cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Immunosuppressed cancer patients with localized herpes
zoster were randomly assigned to receive placebo, 36 X 10(6) units of recombinant
interferon alpha-2a per day, or 68 X 10(6) units of recombinant interferon
alpha-2a per day. Due to frequent adverse effects, the 68 X 10(6) unit dose of
interferon was discontinued prior to conclusion of the trial.
RESULTS: Dissemination of herpes zoster occurred in 14 of the 24 patients (58
percent) who received placebo but in only four of 24 recipients (17 percent) of
36 X 10(6) units of interferon per day (p = 0.003). Adverse effects (fever,
chills, headaches, gastrointestinal irritability, fatigue, and myalgias) were
more common or severe in interferon-treated patients.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that interferon modifies the severity of herpes
zoster in immunosuppressed patients with cancer but is associated with frequent
side effects.

PMID: 3041829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):134-8.

Hypertension in cyclosporine-treated renal transplant recipients is sodium
dependent.

Curtis JJ(1), Luke RG, Jones P, Diethelm AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama Medical Center, Birmingham 35294.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Feb;86(2):256-7.

PURPOSE: Physicians increasingly prescribe cyclosporine as an immunosuppressive
agent for both organ-transplant and non-organ-transplant recipients.
Investigators have reported a high incidence of drug-induced hypertension even
when clinical nephrotoxicity was not present. We wanted to determine the reason.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A comparison was made of hypertension in 15
cyclosporine-treated transplant recipients with that in a similar group of 15
azathioprine-treated transplant recipients.
RESULTS: Hypertension in the cyclosporine group responded differently from that
seen in the azathioprine group and from previously described forms of
post-transplantation hypertension. Hypertensive cyclosporine-treated patients
show a sodium acquisitive renal state that responds to sodium restriction. Unlike
rat models, which suggest cyclosporine-induced stimulation of the
renin-angiotensin system, or previous forms of post-transplant hypertension in
humans, plasma renin levels were not elevated and blood pressure did not respond 
to a test dose of captopril.
CONCLUSION: Hypertension in cyclosporine-treated patients is an iatrogenic form
of hypertension that may be associated with an early, subtle, renal defect in
sodium excretion, a genesis of hypertension that is consistent with Guyton's view
of essential hypertension.

PMID: 3041828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):194-6.

Female patients with small cell lung cancer live longer than male patients.

Johnson BE(1), Steinberg SM, Phelps R, Edison M, Veach SR, Ihde DC.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute-Navy Medical Oncology Branch, Naval Hospital, Bethesda,
Maryland 20814.

PURPOSE: The incidence of lung cancer is rising in women in the United States,
and recent reports have suggested that female patients treated for small cell
lung cancer have an improved survival compared with their male counterparts. In
view of these findings, we decided to determine if, in our patient population,
women live longer than men and if a higher proportion of female patients are
entering our trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The survival of women entering therapeutic clinical trials 
for small cell lung cancer from 1973 through 1986 at the National Cancer
Institute-Navy Medical Oncology Branch was evaluated and compared with the
survival of similarly treated men during the same time period.
RESULTS: The survival of female patients was longer than that of male patients
(median of 13 months versus 10 months). Cox proportional hazards modeling
incorporating multiple prognostic factors indicated that women survived
significantly longer than men (p = 0.002) when adjustment for other significant
factors was made. This survival advantage for women was consistent in both early 
and late time periods analyzed. In addition, women constituted a larger
proportion of patients entering clinical trials in the later time period, as is
consistent with the rising incidence of lung cancer in women nationwide.
CONCLUSION: We believe it will be important that comparisons of current clinical 
trials with older trials that enrolled fewer women control for the favorable
prognostic factor of the female sex.

PMID: 2840825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Am J Med. 1988 Aug;85(2):183-8.

Tolerance and efficacy of recombinant human interferon gamma in the treatment of 
refractory genital warts.

Kirby PK(1), Kiviat N, Beckman A, Wells D, Sherwin S, Corey L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle.

PURPOSE: The intralesional administration of recombinant interferon alpha has led
to resolution of genital warts in 50 to 70 percent of cases. However, continuous 
warts do not respond to such treatment, and human papillomavirus (HPV) infection 
of other anatomic sites remains untreated, so infection may continue to be
transmitted. Since interferons have shown promise as effective therapies for
genital warts, we decided to investigate the tolerance and efficacy of
recombinant human interferon gamma in the treatment of refractory genital warts.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Nineteen women and nine men with refractory genital warts
were treated in an open-label, dose-response trial of intramuscular recombinant
human interferon gamma.
RESULTS: Complete responses were seen in two (7 percent) and partial responses
were seen in 13 (46 percent). Of 12 women with concomitant cervical HPV
infection, eight demonstrated resolution with therapy. Response rates were higher
in those patients who had warts less than nine months (73 percent) prior to
therapy and in women (63 percent). Responses were not associated with HPV type.
Flu-like symptoms during treatment were frequent but well tolerated. Transient
abnormal laboratory results were more frequent with daily administration than
with three times weekly therapy. Eleven of 16 subjects treated with cryotherapy
after treatment with interferon experienced long-term remissions.
CONCLUSIONS: In ambulatory patients with refractory genital warts, recombinant
human interferon gamma appears to be biologically active and to have few adverse 
effects. The high efficacy rate achieved in subjects treated with cryotherapy
after treatment with interferon suggests that further studies of combination
therapy with these modalities are warranted.

PMID: 2840824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Aug 1;109(3):198-202.

Cigarette smoking and upper respiratory infection among recruits in basic combat 
training.

Blake GH(1), Abell TD, Stanley WG.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, Oklahoma City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the relation between cigarette smoking and upper
respiratory infection or viral syndrome.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study of soldiers during 13 weeks of basic combat
training. Each soldier received a smoking questionnaire before the beginning and 
at the conclusion of basic combat training. The incidence of respiratory illness 
among the recruits was evaluated.
SETTING: Fort Benning, Georgia.
PARTICIPANTS: 1230 soldiers met the criteria for inclusion and completed the
study.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: According to the definition of smoking status in
the initial questionnaire, smokers had a relative risk for upper respiratory
infection of 1.46 (95% CI, 1.1 to 1.8). This effect was not substantially altered
by different definitions of smoking status.
CONCLUSIONS: Young military recruits who smoked during basic combat training had 
more upper respiratory infections than nonsmokers. Cigarette smoking can
substantially increase the risk for upper respiratory infection in young men.

PMID: 3389603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Aug 1;109(3):183-9.

Intercurrent death after Hodgkin disease therapy in radiotherapy and adjuvant
MOPP trials.

Hancock SL(1), Hoppe RT, Horning SJ, Rosenberg SA.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University Medical Center, California.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1991 May 1;114(9):810.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term differences in mortality associated with
initial Hodgkin disease therapy.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of patients treated in prospectively randomized
clinical trials.
PATIENTS: Three hundred twenty-six patients with pathologic stage I, II, or III, 
A or B Hodgkin disease treated between 1967 and 1980 with median follow-up
exceeding 14 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients at the same stage of disease were randomized to receive
radiation alone (167 patients) or radiation followed by 6 cycles of
mechlorethamine hydrochloride, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP)
chemotherapy (159 patients) with additional therapy for progression or
recurrence.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: No significant differences between treatment
regimens for actuarial survival, intercurrent disease, or Hodgkin disease
mortality were seen. Thirty-three patients who received radiation alone and 30
patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy died without evident Hodgkin disease.
Death was caused by second neoplasms in 28 patients (relative risk, 2.35; 95% CI,
1.46 to 3.24). Six patients developed acute myelogenous leukemia or a
myeloproliferative disorder after treatment including MOPP. Chemotherapy exposure
varied among the 8 patients with lung cancers, 6 with gastrointestinal and 3 with
other adenocarcinomas, 3 with sarcomas, 1 with diffuse large cell lymphoma, and 1
with melanoma. Acute myocardial infarction caused 9 of 17 cardiovascular disease 
deaths with 5 occurring in patients between the ages of 33 and 43. Nonetheless,
the risk for acute myocardial infarction was not clearly increased (relative
risk, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.42 to 1.57). Fifteen patients died from infection: 5,
opportunistic; 5, asplenic sepsis; and 5, other pneumonias. Two patients died in 
accidents, and 1 died from radiation pneumonitis.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant MOPP chemotherapy improved freedom from relapse without
significant survival benefit or impairment. Leukemogenesis was the only lethal
complication associated with MOPP. Survivors of Hodgkin disease had an increased 
risk for death from a second neoplasm, but no apparent increased risk for death
from acute myocardial infarction.

PMID: 3291657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. J Clin Pharmacol. 1988 Aug;28(8):727-35.

Flecainide pharmacokinetics after multiple dosing in patients with impaired renal
function.

Forland SC(1), Cutler RE, McQuinn RL, Kvam DC, Miller AM, Conard GJ, Parish S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Loma Linda University, California.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the pharmacokinetics of oral flecainide acetate
after single and multiple doses in patients with impaired renal function.
DESIGN: Paired study of single followed by multiple oral doses.
SETTING: PATIENTS enrolled in a Veterans Administration Hospital renal
subspecialty clinic and dialysis unit.
PATIENTS: Twenty men and one woman between the ages of 33 and 74 years with
impaired renal function including ten patients with end-stage renal disease
receiving maintenance hemodialysis.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients received a single, oral, 200-mg dose of flecainide
acetate followed by sequential venous blood sampling. Seven to 14 days after the 
single-dose study, each patient received 100 mg of flecainide acetate by mouth
every 12 hours or every 24 hours for 10 days. Venous blood samples were drawn
periodically during multiple dosing and sequentially after the last dose.
Measurements and primary results: Peak flecainide acetate concentrations
(micrograms/L) were 330 +/- 104 micrograms/L (mean +/- SD) after the single dose 
and 687 +/- 505 micrograms/L after multiple doses. Time to peak occurred at 3.3
+/- 2.3 hours and 2.7 +/- 1.2 hours after single and multiple doses,
respectively. The apparent volume of distribution was 8.2 +/- 2.9 L/kg and 9.2
+/- 5 L/kg after single and multiple dose studies, respectively. Plasma
elimination half-life after the single dose (20.4 +/- 9.0 hours) was
significantly shorter (P less than .001) than after multiple doses (37.8 +/- 39.7
hours), as was total body clearance: 391 +/- 154 mL/min versus 302 +/- 194
mL/min. There were no statistically significant differences between
pharmacokinetic measurements determined for patients on chronic hemodialysis when
compared with nondialysis patients during the multiple-dose study.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3145942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. J Surg Res. 1988 Aug;45(2):181-6.

Effects of 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine on regenerating liver following partial
hepatectomy in the rat.

Hoyle RM(1), Banes A, Bernard S, Thomas CG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel
Hill 27514.

This study evaluated the effect of 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (FUDR) on the
regeneration of the liver following partial (68%) hepatectomy in the rat. Male
Sprague-Dawley rats weighing between 190 and 240 g underwent partial hepatectomy 
under ether anesthesia. Twelve hours postoperatively rats received
intraperitoneal injections of 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine or 0.9% NaCl solution as
follows: Group I, 0.9% NaCl solution (n = 49); Group II, 89 mg
2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine/kg of body weight (n = 25); and Group III, 178 mg
2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine/kg of body weight (n = 24). Sham groups underwent
celiotomy and liver palpation followed by 0.9% NaCl solution injections (n = 5)
or low dose 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (n = 5) and high dose
2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (n = 5). The regenerative ability of the liver was
evaluated by weight and deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in the liver
remnant.RESULT: Both low and high dose 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine delayed the peak 
of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis from 36 to 72 hr as compared to control
animals which had maximal synthesis at 25 to 36 hr postoperatively (P less than
0.01). Weight of the liver remnants demonstrated a similar pattern.
CONCLUSION: High doses of 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine administered intraperitoneally
delay, but do not inhibit, liver regeneration following partial (68%) hepatectomy
as reflected by DNA synthesis and weight of the remnant.

PMID: 2969997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. J Trauma. 1988 Aug;28(8):1214-9.

The effect of verapamil on cerebral cortical and spinal cord blood flow during
proximal descending thoracic aortic occlusion.

Hill AC(1), Schecter WP, Mori H, Stevens MB, Husseni W, Lim RC, Hoffman JI.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of California, San Francisco.

The mechanism of central nervous system (CNS) protection during proximal
descending thoracic aortic cross-clamping (PDTAC) for aortic surgery using
calcium channel blocking agents is not known. In order to determine the effect of
verapamil on CNS blood flow during PDTAC, we calculated cerebral cortical (CC),
proximal spinal cord (PSC), and distal spinal cord (DSC) blood flow using the
microsphere method in Grade I beagles. Flow calculations were obtained at
baseline (pre-PDTAC), following mobilization of the proximal descending aorta for
5-8 cm by ligating 3-5 pairs of intercostal arteries (ICA), during PDTAC (45
min), and during maximal reperfusion. Two groups were studied: 1) control (Cont) 
untreated (n = 5); 2) verapamil (Ver) treated (0.4 mg/kg IV just before PDTAC and
just before reperfusion) (n = 5).CONCLUSIONS: I) Proximal ICA ligation produces
no compromise to SC blood flow. II) Verapamil may protect the CNS by: 1)
maintaining cerebral autoregulation during reperfusion; and 2) dampening
hyperperfusion of the distal SC during reperfusion.

PMID: 3411643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Klin Wochenschr. 1988 Aug 1;66(15):686-9.

The effect of sodium valproate in Cushing's disease, Nelson's syndrome and
Addison's disease.

Reincke M(1), Allolio B, Kaulen D, Jaursch-Hancke C, Winkelmann W.

Author information: 
(1)II. Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Köln-Merheim.

We investigated the effect of sodium valproate on plasma ACTH and serum cortisol 
concentrations in different pathological states of ACTH hypersecretion. Five
patients with pituitary dependent Cushing's syndrome, two patients with Nelson's 
syndrome and five patients with Addison's disease were studied. Neither a single 
dose nor long term administration of sodium valproate resulted in a significant
decrease of plasma ACTH levels in patients with Cushing's disease and Nelson's
syndrome. Furthermore, the response of ACTH and cortisol to stimulation with
lysine-vasopressin was unaffected during acute and chronic treatment. Patients
with Addison's disease showed a slight attenuation of the ACTH response to
lysine-vasopressin as compared to placebo but the difference was not
statistically significant.IN CONCLUSION: sodium valproate does not appear to be
effective in controlling ACTH hypersecretion in pituitary dependent Cushing's
syndrome.

PMID: 2845188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Aug;40(8):1000-9.

[The role of coagulation and fibrinolysis system in pathogenesis of toxemia of
pregnancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakabayashi M.

Author information: 
Maternal and Perinatal Center, Tokyo Women's Medical College.

It is well known that many pathophysiological findings in toxemia of pregnancy
are explained by imbalance of coagulation and fibrinolysis system. The purpose of
this study is to elucidate a precise role of coagulation and fibrinolysis system 
in pathogenesis of toxemia of pregnancy.SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 1) Classification
of toxemia of pregnancy. Three hundred and thirty seven of toxemia of pregnancy
are classified based on the onset period, and incidence of severity of disease
and IUGR, rate of genetic factor of hypertension are compared in each group. 2)
Platelet factor 4 (pf4) and beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG), Fibrinopeptide A
(FPA), thrombin-ATIII complex, ATIII fibrinopeptide B beta 15-42, D dimer FDP and
plasmin-alpha 2 PI complex are assayed. The levels of PGI2, tissue plasminogen
activator (tPA) and thrombomodulin (TM) are measured after venous occlusion.
Immunoreactivity and biological activity of TM in urine are analyzed. 3)
Aminoacid sequence of TM from normal and toxemia of pregnancy are determined by
analyzing cDNA for TM. Moreover, TM are synthesized from recombined DNA and
enzymological properties of TM obtained from normal and toxemia of pregnancy are 
compared. 4) Release of PGI2, tPA and TM by addition of thrombin are observed
using monolayer culture of endothelial cells from cord. Enzymological properties 
of purified placental TM are analyzed.
RESULTS: 1) The incidence of severe type, IUGR and the rate of patients who
possess genetic factors for hypertension are higher in early onset type,
suggesting that hypertension is the predominant characteristics in early onset
type and that genetic factors for hypertension are tightly involved. 2) All
parameters such as platelets, coagulation and fibrinolysis system are elevated in
toxemia of pregnancy compared to those in normal pregnancy. Coagulation index
that consists of above parameters is well correlated with clinical index that
consists of clinical findings (r = 0.7006, p less than 0.0001). The net increase 
of PGI2, tPA and TM by venous occlusion are decreased along with severity of
toxemia of pregnancy. The potency of production of PGI2 from endothelial cells in
maternal omentum is impaired in the severe toxemia of pregnancy. Purified TM in
urine from normal pregnancy and toxemia of pregnancy has 63K dalton of single
band on SDS-PAGE. However, bioactivity/immunoreactivity ratio of TM in early
onset type is lower than those in late onset type, and affinity of TM for
thrombin and protein C is decreased in early onset type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

PMID: 2855231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Strahlenther Onkol. 1988 Aug;164(8):457-65.

[Pilot studies on systemic radiotherapy of organ tumors (sequential upper and
lower body irradiation)].

[Article in German]

Eichhorn HJ.

A survey of literature shows that systemic radiotherapy, given as low dose total 
body irradiation, offers the same healing results in malignant systemic diseases 
as tumor chemotherapy. Single high dose half body doses are even effective
against less sensitive organ cancers. The problem involved is the tolerance of
the lung (fatal radiopneumonitis). The considerations made about the mode of
action of ionizing radiation and cytostatic combinations result in clinical
assays aiming at the establishment of a systemic radiotherapy based on sequential
half body irradiation as an alternative to palliative or adjuvant cytostatic
therapy. The advantage of this treatment would lie in the negligible subjective
side effects, the great saving of time, and the moderate expense. The most
important target of these pilot studies was in increase the pulmonary tolerance. 
78 patients with small cell bronchial carcinomas, divided into four groups, are
treated by different half body irradiation modalities: interruption of the single
dose for 5 hours, small superfractionated additional doses conserving the
principle of the high single dose.RESULTS: the possibility to increase the
tolerance dose of the lung by 33% and, at the same time, to spare the bone marrow
is demonstrated. No (negative) influence of the different irradiation modalities 
on the different irradiation modalities on the primary tumor is found (by
histological examination). The median survival times of the irradiation series
are 56 to 64 weeks (for "LD" patients) which lies within the scope of modern
chemotherapy results. These pilot studies confirm the efficacy of sequential half
body irradiations in systemic tumor therapy. The author give some recommendations
how to extend this method.

PMID: 2843993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Z Kinderchir. 1988 Aug;43(4):281-3.

[7/8th pancreas resection in nesidioblastosis?].

[Article in German]

Hümmer HP(1), Böhles H, Giedl J, Schück R.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderchirurgische Abteilung, Universitäts-Kinderklinik Erlangen.

The extent of pancreatectomy for the treatment of nesidioblastosis is open to
dispute. Recurrent hypoglycaemia, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, or
exocrine insufficiency may result.CASE REPORTS: 1) A female twin presented with
hypoglycaemia, insulin response inappropriate for glucose levels, marked leucine 
sensitivity, low ketones, underwent 7/8 pancreatectomy for multifocal
adenomatosis at the age of 13 months. 2) A boy of 7 months of age had a 95%
resection including the uncinate process. Focal adenomatosis combined with
diffuse nesidioblastosis proved by immunohistological examination.
OUTCOME: Both remained asymptomatic and normoglycaemic.
DISCUSSION: The prognosis seems to depend on the primary extent of resection.

PMID: 3176702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. BMJ. 1988 Jul 30;297(6644):331-3.

Skeletal effects of oral oestrogen compared with subcutaneous oestrogen and
testosterone in postmenopausal women.

Savvas M(1), Studd JW, Fogelman I, Dooley M, Montgomery J, Murby B.

Author information: 
(1)Dulwich Hospital, London.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare oral and implanted oestrogens for their effects in
preventing postmenopausal osteoporosis.
DESIGN: Non-randomised cohort study of postmenopausal women treated with oral or 
depot oestrogens and postmenopausal controls.
SETTING: Gynaecological endocrine clinic in tertiary referral centre.
PATIENTS: Oral treatment group of 37 postmenopausal women (mean age 57.5 years,
median 8.75 years from last menstrual period), compared with 41 women given
oestrogen implants (mean age 56.2 years, median 9.5 years from last menstrual
period) and 36 controls (mean age 51.8 years, median 2.0 years from last
menstrual period). Weight was not significantly different among the groups.
INTERVENTIONS: Oral treatment group was given continuous treatment with cyclic
oestrogen and progesterone preparations (Prempak C or Cycloprogynova) for a
median of 8.0 years. Implant group was given subcutaneous implants of oestradiol 
50 mg combined with testosterone 100 mg, on average six monthly for a median of
8.5 years. Controls were not treated.
END POINT: Significant increase in bone density.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bone density measured by dual beam photon
absorptiometry was 1.02 (SD 0.13) g hydroxyapatite/cm2 in implant group versus
0.89 (0.11) in oral group (p less than 0.01) and 0.87 (0.14) in controls (p less 
than 0.01). Serum oestradiol concentration in implant group was (median) 725
pmol/l versus 170 pmol/l in oral group (p less than 0.01) and 99 pmol/l in
controls (p less than 0.01). Serum follicular stimulating hormone was median 1
IU/l (range 1-11) in implant group (equivalent to premenopausal values) versus 43
(4-94) IU/l in oral group (p less than 0.01) and 72 (28-99) IU/l in controls (p
less than 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Subcutaneous oestrogen is more effective than oral oestrogen in
preventing osteoporosis, probably owing to the more physiological (premenopausal)
serum oestradiol concentrations achieved. It also avoids problems of compliance
that occur with oral treatment.

PMCID: PMC1834046
PMID: 3137998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. BMJ. 1988 Jul 23;297(6643):253-8.

Clinical comparison of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and percutaneous
nephrolithotomy in treating renal calculi.

Mays N(1), Challah S, Patel S, Palfrey E, Creeser R, Vadera P, Burney P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine, United Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and
percutaneous nephrolithotomy for efficacy in treating renal calculi.
DESIGN: Non-randomised multicentre cohort study with 3 month follow up and 13
month data collection period.
SETTING: Lithotripter centre in London, tertiary referral hospital, and
urological clinics in several secondary and tertiary care centres.
PATIENTS: 933 of 1001 patients treated by lithotripsy at the lithotripter centre 
were compared with 195 treated by nephrolithotomy. Missing patients were due to
incomplete collection of data. Age and sex distributions and characteristics of
the stones were similar in the two treatment groups. Two patients died in the
lithotripsy group. Three month follow up was achieved in about 84% of both groups
(783/933 for lithotripsy; 163/195 for nephrolithotomy).
INTERVENTIONS: The nephrolithotomy group had surgical nephrolithotomy alone. In
the lithotripsy group 83% (774/933) had lithotripsy alone, 11% (103/933) had
combined lithotripsy and nephrolithotomy, and 6% (56/933) had lithotripsy plus
ureteroscopy. Single and combined lithotripter treatments were analysed as one
group and compared with nephrolithotomy.
END POINT: Presence of stones three months after treatment.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Presence of residual stones was assessed by plain 
radiography, ultrasonography, or intravenous urography. After adjustment for age 
and size and position of stone for patients with single stones the likelihood of 
being free of stones three months after treatment was significantly greater in
the nephrolithotomy group than the lithotripsy group (odds ratio 6.6; 95%
confidence interval 3.0 to 14.6) and the response was particularly pronounced
with staghorn calculi (62% (8/13) v 15% (141/96) patients free of stones after
nephrolithotomy and lithotripsy, respectively). OTHER FINDINGS: 19%(146/775) of
patients who had had lithotripsy had to be readmitted within three months after
treatment compared with 14%(23/162) who had nephrolithotomy; and 64%(94/146) of
readmissions after lithotripsy were for complications compared with 30%(7/23) of 
readmissions after nephrolithotomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Nephrolithotomy may be preferable to lithotripsy for treating renal 
stones and it may not be wise to invest heavily in lithotripsy facilities.

PMCID: PMC1833939
PMID: 3416143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Brain Res. 1988 Jul 19;456(1):159-67.

Characterization of corticotropin-releasing factor receptors in dissociated brain
cell cultures.

Kapcala LP(1), De Souza EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine and Hospital,
Baltimore 21201.

Although corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors have been identified
throughout the brain, relatively little is known about the regulation of CRF
receptors. Recent investigations aimed at developing an in vitro model for
studying the regulation of CRF receptors demonstrated CRF binding in brain cell
cultures. To test the hypothesis that dissociated brain cell cultures contain CRF
receptors and may provide a model for studying their regulation, studies
characterizing binding of labeled CRF were performed. Dissociated cells derived
from hypothalamus and extrahypothalamic forebrain (predominantly cortex) of day
17 fetal rats were maintained in chemically defined medium. We used a stable
125I-labeled analog of ovine CRF, 125I-Tyro-ovine CRF (125I-oCRF), to identify
and characterize CRF receptors. Although specific binding of 125I-oCRF was
demonstrated in both hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic cell cultures, the
concentration of CRF receptors was much greater (3-5 fold) in extrahypothalamic
cells. Binding of 125I-oCRF in extrahypothalamic cells was saturable and was
composed of high affinity (Kd = 0.51 nM) and low affinity (Kd = 17.25 nM) sites. 
Pharmacological displacement of labeled CRF from cells with a variety of CRF
fragments and analogs was similar to that in studies of pituitary and brain
homogenates. Extrahypothalamic cells studied at several times between 4 and 13
days in culture revealed an increase in the number of CRF receptors; the
concentration of CRF receptors at 13 days was 3.5 times that observed at 4 days. 
Studies directed toward determining whether CRF receptor concentration could be
modulated by CRF, adrenocorticotropic hormone, atropine or a CRF antagonist
showed a change (36% decrease) only in response to chronic exposure with
CRF.CONCLUSIONS: (1) dissociated fetal rat brain cell cultures derived from
extrahypothalamic forebrain and hypothalamus contain CRF receptors; (2) CRF
receptors in brain cells exhibit a differential distribution and characteristics 
similar to those previously reported in brain and pituitary; (3) dissociated
fetal rat brain cell cultures may provide a relatively simplified in vitro model 
for studying the regulation of CRF receptors; and (4) CRF down-regulates its own 
receptor in extrahypothalamic forebrain cells.

PMID: 2842000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. BMJ. 1988 Jul 16;297(6642):163-6.

Controlled trial of budesonide given by the nebuhaler in preschool children with 
asthma.

Gleeson JG(1), Price JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Child Health, King's College School of Medicine, London.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the inhaled corticosteroid budesonide, given by a
Nebuhaler spacing device, was effective in prophylaxis of asthma in preschool
children.
DESIGN: Double blind, placebo controlled, random order crossover trial with two
week practice run in period.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic referrals in secondary referral centre.
PATIENTS: 39 children aged 2-6 years selected for the following: able to use
Nebuhaler; parents able to complete record card; poorly controlled asthma
(defined); not already on systemic or inhaled steroids. Eleven withdrew for
various reasons not connected with intolerance to budesonide. Age, sex, other
atopies, and symptoms during run in period were similar in the 28 children who
completed the trial and in the 11 who withdrew.
INTERVENTIONS: Budesonide 200 micrograms or placebo (both one puff) given twice
daily during 6-week treatment or control periods, using Nebuhaler after prior
training. Three week "washout" at crossover. Compliance monitored by weighing
canisters. Patients withdrawn if their acute attacks required treatment with
systemic steroids.
END POINT: Control of asthma.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Peak expiratory flow rate measured twice daily
where cooperation allowed. Diary of symptoms and concomitant drug use kept daily.
Results showed mean peak flow significantly higher (12% in mornings, 14% in
evenings) in second three weeks of intervention compared with control period (95%
confidence intervals 6.3-17.3% and 7.2-21.0%). Supplementary bronchodilator drugs
reduced by 50% during intervention periods.
CONCLUSIONS: Budesonide given by Nebuhaler is effective prophylaxis for preschool
children with frequent asthma.

PMCID: PMC1834236
PMID: 3044506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jul 15;109(2):95-100.

Prednisone withdrawal followed by recombinant alpha interferon in the treatment
of chronic type B hepatitis. A randomized, controlled trial.

Perrillo RP(1), Regenstein FG, Peters MG, DeSchryver-Kecskemeti K, Bodicky CJ,
Campbell CR, Kuhns MC.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of a short course of prednisone
followed by recombinant interferon treatment in patients with chronic type B
hepatitis.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial with a 5-month treatment phase and a 9-month
observation period after treatment.
SETTING: Two referral-based university-affiliated medical centers.
PATIENTS: Thirty-nine clinically stable patients with chronic type B hepatitis,
all of whom were positive for hepatitis B antigen, hepatitis B
virus-associated-DNA (HBV-DNA), and DNA polymerase for at least 6 months before
entry. Patients included 20 heterosexuals and 19 male homosexuals.
INTERVENTIONS: Eighteen patients were treated with a 6-week tapered regimen of
prednisone, followed by 90 days treatment with recombinant interferon alpha-2b;
21 patients were untreated controls. Paired liver biopsy specimens of 27 patients
(pretreatment and 9 months after treatment) were blindly evaluated.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Nine treated patients had a sustained loss of
HBV-DNA. In addition, eight treated patients lost hepatitis B e antigen and four 
became negative for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). When compared with
controls the differences were statistically significant for clearance of HBV-DNA 
and HBsAg (P = 0.035 and 0.037, respectively). Treated patients who had a
sustained loss of HBV-DNA had higher initial alanine aminotransferase lower
initial DNA and DNA polymerase levels, and were more frequently heterosexual.
Patients who responded to treatment with the disappearance of hepatitis B e
antigen and HBV-DNA had normal liver function tests and markedly improved liver
histology during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The immunologic priming provided by a short course of prednisone
used with alpha interferon may be an effective treatment for selected patients
with chronic type B hepatitis.

PMID: 3289433  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jul 15;109(2):101-5.

Antibody to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and suboptimal response to
hepatitis B vaccination.

Collier AC(1), Corey L, Murphy VL, Handsfield HH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Seattle.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To analyze the relation between human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) infection and the antibody response to plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine.
DESIGN: Open-label longitudinal cohort study; blinded laboratory studies.
SETTING: University-affiliated municipal hospital.
PATIENTS: Homosexually active men with negative assays for hepatitis B surface
antigen (HBsAg), hepatitis B core antigen, and antibody to HBsAg; recruited in a 
sexually transmitted disease clinic or referred from community practitioners.
INTERVENTIONS: Immunization with 20 micrograms of plasma-derived hepatitis B
virus vaccine intramuscularly, repeated after 1 and 6 months; standardized
evaluation at entry and at 1, 2, 6, and 7 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Low antibody response or nonresponse to
vaccination occurred in 7 of 16 HIV-seropositive patients, compared with 6 of 68 
HIV-seronegative patients (P = 0.002). Median levels of antibody to HBsAg 7
months after the first vaccine dose were 205.3 sample ratio units for
HIV-seronegative patients and 15.5 sample ratio units for HIV-seropositive
patients. By multivariate analysis, vaccine response was associated with HIV
antibody status and not with cytomegalovirus infection, lymphocyte subset
results, or impaired cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Infection with HIV is associated with suboptimal antibody response
to plasma-derived hepatitis B virus vaccine. Determination of antibody levels
after vaccination in HIV-seropositive patients may be warranted.

PMID: 2968064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 1988 Jul-Oct;51(4-5):403-6.

[Villous tumors of the rectum. Endoscopic treatment using monopolar coagulation].

[Article in French]

Van Wymersch T, Warzée P, Coppens JP, Maskens AP, Liénard JC, Vanheuverzwyn R.

Many methods are used to treat villous adenomas of the rectum. The best choice
between these methods is not well established. Ninety-six patients (47 men, 49
women) treated with endoscopic monopolar coagulation were studied. The mean age
was 66 years (range 37-84). The lesions were located in the lower third of the
rectum in 27 cases, in the middle third in 35 cases and in the upper third in 34 
cases. The circumferential extent of the lesions was less than 1/3 in 70 cases
(C1), greater than 1/3-less than 2/3 in 23 (C2) and greater than 2/3 in 3 cases
(C3). The follow-up of 2 patients (1 C1 and 1 C2) was not sufficient. Healing was
not achieved in 8 of the 94 evaluated patients. Eighty-six patients were totally 
healed: 68 C1, 16 C2 and 2 C3 with a follow-up of 2 to 132 months (median: 36
months). The treatment was achieved after a mean of 2.1 sessions per patient
(range 1-13).CONCLUSIONS: 1) Endoscopic monopolar coagulation of villous adenoma 
of the rectum is a simple and efficient treatment. 2) This method is
complementary to surgery for extensive lesions (C3).

PMID: 2979044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 1988 Jul-Oct;51(4-5):322-8.

Gastric and duodenal ulcer in the same patient.

Battaglia G, Di Mario F, Cannizzaro R, Farinati R, Braghetto D, La Rosa G, Martin
A, Naccarato R.

No extensive endoscopic studies have been performed on the prevalence and the
clinical outcome of association of gastric ulcer (GU) and duodenal ulcer (DU).
The present investigation, partially retrospective and partially prospective,
takes into account 715 patients with active ulcer demonstrated by endoscopy,
followed-up for a mean period of 3.8-years; 23 of them (3.2%) were found to have 
synchronous or asynchronous gastric and duodenal ulcers. The following
characteristics were investigated: age of onset of both diseases, ulcer family
history, cigarette and alcohol consumption, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
abuse, serum pepsinogen group I, ABO and Lewis blood groups, healing and relapse 
rate under H2-blocker treatment. The first diagnosis (by either X-Ray or
endoscopy) was DU in 500 subjects (70%), GU in 210 (29.3%) and synchronous
gastric and duodenal ulcers in 5 (0.7%). After a median period of 10 years, 2.8% 
of DU patients developed a GU; after 2-12 yrs 1.9% of GU patients developed a DU.
The clinical and biochemical findings of our GU/DU patients suggest that the two 
ulcers are related by chance.IN CONCLUSION: asynchronous GU/DU patients do not
seem to have a distinct disease in the large spectrum of ulcer disease. Larger
studies must be planned on synchronous GU/DU with the aim of assessing whether or
not it represents a particular type of ulcer disease.

PMID: 2979038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Am J Hypertens. 1988 Jul;1(3 Pt 3):195S-198S.

High night blood pressure in treated hypertensive patients: not harmless.

Gosse P(1), Campello G, Roudaut R, Dallocchio M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Cardiologique Centre Hospitalier Régional et Universitaire de Bordeaux,
Pessac, France.

Erratum in
    Am J Hypertens 1988 Oct;1(4 Pt 1):preceding 347.

The left ventricular mass index (LVMI) is better related to activity than resting
systolic blood pressure (BP) in treated hypertensive patients. Many recommend
ambulatory BP monitoring only during the day. However, 24-hour BP monitoring may 
be useful in treated patients to check adequate control of BP during the entire
24-hour period. We tested the influence of night BP on LVMI in treated versus
nontreated patients. We compared two groups of hypertensive patients: A: 40
patients who had discontinued therapy at least 8 days prior to the study; B: 24
patients treated for more than 3 months with the same drugs (beta-blockers in 14 
cases). Ambulatory BP was recorded every 30 minutes during night and every 15
minutes during day (Spacelabs 5200). The LVMI was calculated from M mode echo
blind reading (Devereux's formula). Correlation coefficients between LVMI and
casual, systolic BP were calculated for both day (7:00 AM to 10:59 PM) and night 
time (11:00 PM to 6:59 AM). Day systolic BP is better related to LVMI than casual
and night systolic BP in group A. In contrast, a significantly higher correlation
existed between night BP and LVMI in B, though average night BP level was
lower.CONCLUSION: 24-hour BP monitoring may be useful in treated hypertensive
patients. Inadequate lowering of night BP may partially account for persistent
LVH in treated hypertensive patients.

PMID: 3415799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):73-80.

Hepatic amyloidosis (primary [AL], immunoglobulin light chain): the natural
history in 80 patients.

Gertz MA(1), Kyle RA.

Author information: 
(1)Dysproteinemia Clinic, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

PURPOSE: We wished to study patients with a premortem diagnosis of primary
hepatic amyloidosis to determine what clinical and laboratory features might
assist in recognizing the disease and assessing prognosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A group of 80 patients with liver biopsy proven primary
hepatic amyloidosis was followed from diagnosis to death.
RESULTS: At presentation, 77 percent of the group had an associated nephrotic
syndrome, congestive heart failure, peripheral neuropathy, or orthostatic
hypotension. Certain clues suggested the diagnosis of hepatic amyloidosis in
patients with liver disease, including the following: (1) proteinuria (88
percent); (2) abnormal serum protein electrophoresis (monoclonal protein or
hypogammaglobulinemia, 64 percent); (3) hyposplenism on the peripheral blood
smear (62 percent), defined by the presence of Howell-Jolly bodies; and (4)
hepatomegaly disproportional to the liver enzyme abnormalities. Liver function
tests were not sensitive or specific. Hepatomegaly from amyloid was frequently
seen, with normal levels of alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, and
bilirubin (32 percent). Myeloma was diagnosed in 11 patients but had no effect on
the clinical course. In vitro coagulation abnormalities were common, bleeding was
infrequent, and liver biopsy carried a slightly increased risk. The median
survival of the entire group was nine months, and projected five- and 10-year
survival rates were 13 and 1 percent, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Because survival is poor and no clinical features permit prospective 
recognition of those patients in whom the disease is likely to have an indolent
course, a trial of therapy is warranted in all patients.

PMID: 3389383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):65-72.

Bone mineralization in women following successful treatment of Hodgkin's disease.

Redman JR(1), Bajorunas DR, Wong G, McDermott K, Gnecco C, Schneider R, Lacher
MJ, Lane JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York 10021.

PURPOSE: Women with Hodgkin's disease in whom a cure has been achieved may be at 
risk for osteoporosis because of therapy-induced premature menopause. Our
objective was to gather information regarding the integrity of bone mass in such 
long-term cancer survivors.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Bone mineral density was measured using photon
absorptiometry in five groups of women: 11 patients with Hodgkin's disease and
ovarian failure (Group I); six patients with Hodgkin's disease and ovarian
failure who received estrogen replacement (Group II); 15 patients with Hodgkin's 
disease and normal ovarian function (Group III); 16 premenopausal control
subjects (Group IV); and 11 postmenopausal control subjects (Group V). All
patients with Hodgkin's disease were in remission and had completed treatment
more than five years earlier.
RESULTS: Subjects in Group I were found to have significantly decreased radial (p
= 0.0009), lumbar spine (p = 0.002), and femoral neck (p = 0.0001) bone mineral
density measurements compared with those in subjects in Group IV; the bone
mineral density measurements at all sites of subjects in Group I were no
different than those of subjects in Group V. Subjects in Group III had bone
density measurements that were similar to those in Group IV, although the radial 
bone mineral density value was significantly lower (p = 0.0004). Determination of
serum gonadotropins and estradiol was consistent with the menstrual status
defining the five groups. No secondary causes for decreased bone mineral density 
values could be detected, since the mean serum levels of parathyroid hormone,
calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D metabolites were similar among the groups, and
all prolactin levels were normal.
CONCLUSION: We have identified a new population of patients with a high risk of
osteoporosis, and these results emphasize the importance of treatment-related
ovarian failure in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis.

PMID: 3389382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):47-50.

Aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in obstructive jaundice.

Desai TK(1), Tsang TK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago,
Illinois.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1989 Aug;87(2):245-6.

PURPOSE: Although it is known that liver disease predisposes to aminoglycoside
nephrotoxicity, specific features of such disease that may predispose to
aminoglycoside-induced renal injury have not been identified. We sought to
identify such features.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We undertook a retrospective review of the charts of 42
consecutive patients with biliary obstruction and/or cholangitis who had received
more than three doses of an aminoglycoside.
RESULTS: Comparison of patients in whom aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity did and did
not develop revealed no differences in age, race, sex, dose, and duration of
aminoglycoside therapy; mean peak and trough aminoglycoside levels; initial
pre-treatment levels of serum creatinine, aspartate transaminase, alkaline
phosphatase, or albumin; or prothrombin time. The initial pre-treatment serum
bilirubin level was higher in the patients in whom aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity 
developed (12.2 +/- 8.8 mg/dl versus 3.4 +/- 3.2 mg/dl, p less than 0.01).
Aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity occurred in eight patients (19 percent): in seven
of 15 patients (47 percent) with an initial bilirubin value greater than 5.0
mg/dl, but in only one of 27 patients (4 percent) with an initial bilirubin value
below 5.0 mg/dl (p less than 0.01). The pre-treatment bilirubin level correlated 
with the change in creatinine during aminoglycoside therapy (n = 42, r = 0.66, p 
less than 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Aminoglycosides should probably be avoided in patients with biliary
obstruction and a high serum bilirubin level.

PMID: 3389381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):29-37.

Prediction of severity of aortic stenosis: accuracy of multiple noninvasive
parameters.

Come PC(1), Riley MF, Ferguson JF, Morgan JP, McKay RG.

Author information: 
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02215.

PURPOSE: As newer non-medical techniques are developed to treat older patients
with severe aortic stenosis, reliable noninvasive diagnosis of the condition will
become increasingly important. For this reason, the accuracy of multiple
noninvasive indexes for quantitation of the severity of aortic stenosis was
evaluated, relative to catheterization-determined aortic valve area.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: To evaluate the accuracy of multiple noninvasive parameters
in assessing the presence and extent of aortic valve narrowing, noninvasive and
catheterization correlations of the severity of aortic stenosis were obtained on 
121 occasions in 81 patients (mean age, 76 +/- 11 years). Forty patients had
studies performed before and after valvuloplasty. Noninvasive studies included
the time to one-half carotid upstroke and carotid ejection time, corrected for
heart rate, measured from a carotid pulse tracing; M-mode echocardiographic
aortic valve excursion; mean pressure gradient across the aortic valve assessed
by Doppler technique; the ratio of the peak to mean pressure gradient by Doppler;
and Doppler aortic valve area assessed using the following continuity equation:
aortic valve area = A X V/V1, where A = left ventricular outflow tract area, V = 
peak left ventricular outflow tract velocity, and V1 = peak velocity in the
aortic stenotic jet. Mean aortic valve gradients and area (calculated using the
Gorlin formula) were also assessed at cardiac catheterization.
RESULTS: The correlations between the catheterization measurement of aortic valve
area and the various noninvasive measurements were as follows: time to one-half
carotid upstroke (r = -0.32, p less than 0.001); corrected left ventricular
ejection time (r = -0.24, p less than 0.05); aortic valve excursion (r = 0.51, p 
less than 0.001); mean gradient by Doppler study (r = -0.44, p less than 0.001); 
mean gradient by catheterization analysis (r = -0.55, p less than 0.001); peak to
mean gradient ratio measured by continuous wave Doppler (r = 0.38, p less than
0.001); and aortic valve area assessed using the Doppler continuity equation (r =
0.85, p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Noninvasive determination of aortic valve area using the continuity
equation is an accurate means of assessing the severity of aortic stenosis.
Although multiple other noninvasive parameters also correlate with aortic valve
area measured at catheterization, there is too much scatter of data points to
permit accurate prediction of catheterization aortic valve area in any given
patient.

PMID: 3389380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):19-28.

Early evolution of symptoms and long-term prognosis in variant angina: importance
of the functional component of coronary arterial disease.

MacAlpin RN.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of California, Los
Angeles.

PURPOSE: Most investigations describing the long-term outcome of large groups of 
patients with variant angina pectoris have focused on such endpoints as
myocardial infarction, coronary artery surgery, and death, and have asked how the
risk of these events is related to the severity of existing organic coronary
disease. It is also possible to ask what is the relative importance of organic
and functional components in causation of symptoms and outcomes, as was done in
this study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The early and long-term clinical course was observed in a
group of 80 patients with variant angina and a low prevalence of severe organic
coronary disease (diameter stenosis greater than 70 percent of one vessel in 28.3
percent, of two or more vessels in 2.7 percent). Patients were seen at the UCLA
Medical Center between July 1963 and June 1985.
RESULTS: The following observations were made: Compared with those experiencing a
first episode of angina at rest, subjects whose first episode of vasospastic
angina occurred during strenuous effort were more likely subsequently to have a
positive exercise test result and a more stable but long-term anginal course. A
good initial response to vasodilator therapy indicated a likelihood of being
alive and symptom-free without an intervening myocardial infarction by five years
after diagnosis, which was twice the rate as if initial response to such
treatment was poor. The presence or absence of severe coronary artery obstruction
as detected by angiography could not be predicted from the nature or severity of 
angina, the historical presence of effort angina, or the occurrence of a positive
result on an exercise test. The existence of severe coronary stenosis in at least
one vessel was not associated with an increased incidence of myocardial
infarction, cardiac arrest, or death in the first nine years after diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that manifestations
of ischemic heart disease in these patients were more directly caused by coronary
vasospasm than by the degree of organic coronary obstruction seen by coronary
arteriography. In addition, the presence of severe organic stenosis in one
coronary artery did not appear to be associated with measurably increased adverse
effects on clinical course or survival over the first nine years after diagnosis.

PMID: 3389379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):38-46.

Early and long-term effects of acute caloric deprivation in obese diabetic
patients.

Bauman WA(1), Schwartz E, Rose HG, Eisenstein HN, Johnson DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Bronx, New York
10468.

PURPOSE: It is generally assumed that diet therapy can ameliorate the metabolic
derangements experienced by obese type 2 diabetic patients, thereby leading to
discontinuation of insulin or oral sulfonylurea drug therapy. We decided to
retrospectively investigate which clinical and biochemical parameters affect
therapeutic responses.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-four poorly controlled obese diabetic patients were
hospitalized and placed on a precisely defined, hypocaloric diet. Known duration 
of diabetes, type of pharmacologic therapy, body weight, weight loss, fasting
plasma glucose concentrations, C-peptide levels, hemoglobin A1C, and plasma lipid
levels were assessed, as were nitrogen and electrolyte balances.
RESULTS: Average weight loss was 13 pounds in a mean of 23 days. During
hospitalization, the mean fasting plasma glucose value for the group fell from
221 +/- 10 to 122 +/- 5 mg/dl. In 45 patients (73 percent), the final fasting
plasma glucose level was less than 125 mg/dl (mean: 102 +/- 2 mg/dl). Oral
glucose tolerance even in those patients in whom fasting plasma glucose levels
normalized was still grossly diabetic at the end of the hospital stay,
deteriorating further after three days of liberalized caloric intake. In part
this may have been due to decreased insulin secretory reserve as reflected by
blunted plasma C-peptide response. Forty of 42 patients who entered the study
taking insulin were able to discontinue the drug within one to seven days of
hospitalization. After a mean follow-up period of 19 months, only 10 of 50
patients continued to maintain fasting euglycemia; five were on diet alone, and
five were receiving oral hypoglycemic agents. Thirteen patients were receiving
insulin therapy.
CONCLUSION: Diet therapy in these patients resulted in short-term improvement of 
glycemic control and, in the majority, normalization of fasting plasma glucose
levels. However, long-term outpatient follow-up revealed that relapse occurred in
most patients.

PMID: 3291612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):59-64.

Rheumatic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Berman A(1), Espinoza LR, Diaz JD, Aguilar JL, Rolando T, Vasey FB, Germain BF,
Lockey RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of South Florida College of Medicine,
Tampa 33612.

PURPOSE: The prevalence and characteristics of the rheumatic and extra-rheumatic 
manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were determined in
a prospective manner.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred one patients with HIV infection were
consecutively interviewed and examined. The prevalence of autoantibodies and
their association with rheumatologic symptoms were also determined.
RESULTS: The musculoskeletal system was involved in 72 patients. Thirty-five
patients had arthralgias, 10 had Reiter's syndrome, two had psoriatic arthritis, 
two had myositis, and one had vasculitis. Also found were two previously
unreported syndromes. The first, occurring in 10 patients, consisted of severe
intermittent pain involving less than four joints, without evidence of synovitis,
of short duration (two to 24 hours), and requiring therapy (ranging from
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs to narcotics). The second, occurring in 12
patients, consisted of arthritis (oligoarticular in six patients, monoarticular
in three patients, and polyarticular in three patients) involving the lower
extremities and lasting from one week to six months. The synovial fluid of five
patients (three with arthritis, one with Reiter's syndrome, and one with
psoriatic arthritis) was sterile and inflammatory.
CONCLUSION: Musculoskeletal complications are common in advanced stages of HIV
infection. Persons in a high-risk group for HIV infection who manifest
oligoarthritis with or without any other extra-articular manifestation suggestive
of Reiter's syndrome or other form of spondyloarthropathy should be tested for
HIV.

PMID: 3260453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):12-8.

HLA-B27: an important genetic risk factor for lone aortic regurgitation and
severe conduction system abnormalities.

Bergfeldt L(1), Insulander P, Lindblom D, Möller E, Edhag O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge Hospital, Stockholm,
Sweden.

PURPOSE: HLA-B27, an immunogenetic marker that is present in 8 percent of the
white population around the world, has been found to be an important risk factor 
for the development of a group of rheumatic disorders, the seronegative
spondyloarthropathies. Our objective was to assess the possible role of HLA-B27
and the associated inflammatory disease process in the development of lone aortic
regurgitation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A group of 91 patients with lone aortic regurgitation were 
studied by HLA typing and clinical and roentgenologic examination.
RESULTS: The HLA-B27-associated inflammatory disease process was found to be the 
probable underlying cause in 15 to 20 percent of patients with lone aortic
regurgitation of different degrees of severity. Furthermore, HLA-B27 was found in
88 percent of the male patients with the combination of aortic regurgitation and 
severe conduction system abnormalities.
CONCLUSION: We suggest that this cardiac syndrome should be regarded as an
HLA-B27-associated syndrome, sometimes part of ankylosing spondylitis or Reiter's
disease, but just as often presenting without obvious rheumatic disease. The
marker is thus an important and widely distributed risk factor not only for the
development of rheumatic disease but also for acquired aortic regurgitation and
sever conduction system abnormalities.

PMID: 3260450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):51-8.

Human T-cell lymphotropic virus I and adult T-cell leukemia: report of a cluster 
in North Carolina.

Weinberg JB(1), Spiegel RA, Blazey DL, Janssen RS, Kaplan JE, Robert-Guroff M,
Popovic M, Matthews TJ, Haynes BF, Palker TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27705.

PURPOSE: Human adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma is a malignant, proliferative
disease of CD4+ lymphocytes associated with infection with human T-cell
lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I). Following the presentation of a patient who
was infected with the virus, we undertook a study of his family members and
sexual contacts to see if a cluster of infected persons could be identified.
CASE REPORT: A black heterosexual North Carolina native with a history of drug
abuse presented with jaundice, and pancytopenia subsequently developed. He then
became hypercalcemic and leukemic, with high numbers of circulating,
morphologically abnormal CD4+ lymphocytes.
RESULTS: As determined by radioimmunoassay and immunoblot analyses, the serum of 
the index case contained antibodies against core proteins (p19 and p24) of
HTLV-I. When cultured in vitro with interleukin-2, the lymphocytes expressed
HTLV-I specific core proteins. The virus recovered from these T cells was
transmitted to cord blood T cells, which became immortalized for continuous
growth in vitro, expressed HTLV-I p19 protein, and displayed characteristic
C-type particles by electron microscopy. Studies of family members and sexual
contacts, all of whom were black, heterosexual central North Carolina natives,
revealed five of 28 whose serum had anti-HTLV-I antibodies as determined by
radioimmunoassay and immunoblot. Neither the patient nor the seropositive
family/contacts had antibodies against human immunodeficiency virus proteins.
Four of the six people with HTLV-I infection had no history of intravenous drug
abuse. Three of the five seropositive family/contacts had circulating,
morphologically abnormal lymphocytes suggestive of "preleukemic" or "smoldering" 
human adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma.

PMID: 2898891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Am J Med. 1988 Jul;85(1):4-11.

Heart-lung transplantation: better use of resources.

Hutter JA(1), Despins P, Higenbottam T, Stewart S, Wallwork J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Papworth Hospital, Cambridgeshire, England.

PURPOSE: Our goal was to review the experience at Papworth Hospital,
Cambridgeshire, England, with combined heart-lung transplantation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since April 1984, 31 patients have undergone heart-lung
transplantation. Donors and recipients are carefully matched with regards to
serology, morphology, and cytomegalovirus compatibility. A pulmonary preservation
fluid has been developed that allows distant organ procurement with a single
pulmonary artery flush technique.
RESULTS: Acute cardiac rejection has not occurred in these patients. Twenty-three
patients are alive between two months and over three years following
transplantation. The actuarial survival rate at one year is 78 percent, and 70
percent at two years. Three patients died as a result of cytomegalovirus
pneumonitis; in two patients, obliterative bronchiolitis developed, and both
died, one after an opportunistic infection developed. Three patients died from
other causes. The use of transbronchial biopsy of the lung has provided accurate,
early, and safe diagnosis of pulmonary rejection.
CONCLUSION: Developments in organ preservation and patient management, as well as
careful selection of recipients and donors, have led to the effective use of
resources and thereby to these good results. In particular, the incidence of
obliterative bronchiolitis has been low, which is attributed to the early
treatment of pulmonary rejection following diagnosis by transbronchial biopsy.

PMID: 2839032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jul 1;109(1):18-24.

Obesity and knee osteoarthritis. The Framingham Study.

Felson DT(1), Anderson JJ, Naimark A, Walker AM, Meenan RF.

Author information: 
(1)Boston City Hospital, Massachusetts.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether obesity preceded knee osteoarthritis and
was thus a possible cause.
DESIGN: Cohort study with weight and other important variables measured in 1948
to 1951 (mean age of subjects, 37 years) and knee arthritis evaluated in 1983 to 
1985 (mean age of subjects, 73 years).
SETTING: Population-based participants; a subset (n = 1420) of the Framingham
Heart Study cohort.
METHODS: For those subjects in the Framingham Study having knee radiographs taken
as part of the 18th biennial examination (1983 to 1985), we examined Metropolitan
Relative Weight, a measure of weight adjusted for height at the onset of the
study (1948 to 1951). Relative risks were computed as the cumulative incidence
rate of radiographic knee osteoarthritis in the heaviest weight groups at
examination 1 divided by the cumulative rate in the lightest 60% weight groups at
examination 1. Relative risks were adjusted for age, physical activity level, and
uric acid level.
RESULTS: In 1983 to 1985, 468 subjects (33%) had radiographic knee
osteoarthritis. For men, the risk of knee osteoarthritis was increased in those
in the heaviest quintile of weight at examination 1 compared with those in the
lightest three quintiles (age-adjusted relative risk, 1.51; 95% confidence
interval [CI], 1.14 to 1.98); risk was not increased for those in the second
heaviest quintile (relative risk, 1.0). The association between weight and knee
osteoarthritis was stronger in women than in men; for women in the most
overweight quintile at examination 1, relative risk was 2.07 (95% CI, 1.67 to
2.55), and for those in the second heaviest group, relative risk was 1.44 (95%
CI, 1.11 to 1.86). This link between obesity and subsequent osteoarthritis
persisted after controlling for serum uric acid level and physical activity
level, and was strongest for persons with severest radiographic disease. Obesity 
at examination 1 was associated with the risk of developing both symptomatic and 
asymptomatic osteoarthritis.
CONCLUSIONS: These results and other corroborative cross-sectional data show that
obesity or as yet unknown factors associated with obesity cause knee
osteoarthritis.

PMID: 3377350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jul 1;109(1):25-32.

Combination drug therapy for familial combined hyperlipidemia.

East C(1), Bilheimer DW, Grundy SM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of gemfibrozil and colestipol with
gemfibrozil and lovastatin in patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia.
DESIGN: A prospective, randomized trial.
SETTING: An outpatient clinical research center in a tertiary care center.
PATIENTS: Seventeen patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia documented by 
studies of first-degree relatives; nine patients with type 2b
hyperlipoproteinemia, and eight patients with type 4 hyperlipoproteinemia.
INTERVENTIONS: Baseline lipid, lipoprotein, and apolipoprotein levels were
obtained during control periods on diet alone and on gemfibrozil therapy.
Patients then received gemfibrozil and colestipol or gemfibrozil and lovastatin
in a randomized order.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In patients with type 2b hyperlipoproteinemia,
gemfibrozil alone significantly reduced total cholesterol by 11%, and low density
lipoprotein (LDL)-apolipoprotein B by 18%, did not change LDL-cholesterol, and
raised high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels by 26%. Addition of
either colestipol or lovastatin reduced LDL-cholesterol levels by 17% and 25%,
respectively, compared to gemfibrozil alone. However, colestipol mitigated the
HDL-cholesterol raising effect of gemfibrozil and did not further reduce
LDL-apolipoprotein B levels. In contrast, addition of lovastatin caused an
additional reduction of LDL-apolipoprotein B 19% compared with gemfibrozil alone.
In patients with type 4 hyperlipoproteinemia, gemfibrozil alone reduced
triglycerides by 40%, raised HDL-cholesterol by 26%, and increased
LDL-cholesterol levels by 29%. The addition of either colestipol or lovastatin
reduced LDL-cholesterol levels by 34% and 33%, respectively (compared with
gemfibrozil alone), but greater reductions of LDL-apolipoprotein B (30% with
lovastatin compared with 15% with colestipol, compared with gemfibrozil alone),
and increases in HDL-cholesterol levels (8% increase with lovastatin compared
with 10% decrease with colestipol, compared to gemfibrozil alone) were seen with 
the lovastatin combination.
CONCLUSIONS: Although gemfibrozil with either colestipol or lovastatin favorably 
altered lipoprotein levels in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and familial
combined hyperlipidemia, the combination of gemfibrozil and lovastatin appeared
superior overall.

PMID: 3288029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jul 1;109(1):11-7.

Campylobacter pylori antibodies in humans.

Perez-Perez GI(1), Dworkin BM, Chodos JE, Blaser MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, Denver, Colorado.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the diagnostic value of assays to measure serum
antibodies to Campylobacter pylori, and to use these assays to determine the
prevalence of C. pylori infection in a healthy population.
DESIGN: A survey of patients having endoscopies for upper gastrointestinal
symptoms, patients with other gastrointestinal illnesses, and healthy controls.
SETTING: Outpatients attending endoscopy suites in two university-affiliated
medical centers.
PATIENTS: One hundred and twenty patients who had gastroduodenoscopies, 61
patients with lower intestinal illnesses, and 166 healthy controls.
INTERVENTION: Assay to detect serum IgA, IgG, and IgM antibodies specific for C. 
pylori.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Absorption with other gram-negative pathogens
showed that IgG and IgA assays, but not IgM assays, were specific for C. pylori. 
In patients in whom C. pylori had been isolated and who had gastritis diagnosed
by histologic methods, significantly higher mean IgA and IgG levels were seen
compared with patients without demonstrable C. pylori or gastritis. The
sensitivity and specificity of a positive value in both IgA and IgG assays were
more than 93%. Among healthy persons, IgG and IgA antibodies were rarely seen in 
patients less than 20 years old, but antibody prevalence progressed with age,
reaching 50% in patients more than 60 years old. High IgA and IgG levels to C.
pylori in five persons tested remained stable for more than 1 year, suggesting
the organism persists for at least that period. In 61 patients with acute
bacterial enteritis, acute pancreatitis, Crohn disease, or ulcerative colitis,
prevalence of antibodies to C. pylori was consistent with age and unrelated to
current disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Campylobacter pylori infection, which is highly associated with
active gastritis, may be diagnosed by serologic assay. Acquisition of infection
begins in adult life, and prevalence increases with age.

PMID: 3288028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. ASAIO Trans. 1988 Jul-Sep;34(3):617-9.

Osmotic disequilibrium causing ascites during chronic hemodialysis.

Fajardo B(1), Gonzalez G, Tannenberg AM.

Author information: 
(1)Renal Section, Metropolitan Hospital, New York, NY 10029.

Ascites formation is a recognized complication of chronic hemodialysis (CHD). The
cause is an enigma after tumors, tuberculosis, and heart, liver, and pancreatic
diseases are excluded. A 55-year-old patient who developed intractable ascites
about 6 months after starting CHD was studied. The premise was that osmotic
disequilibrium during HD may be the causative factor. Other causes of ascites
were excluded. The study method relied on determining simultaneous serum and
ascites osmolality (Sosm and Aosm) at the start and finish of a standard 4 hour
HD session.THE RESULTS: Sosm and Aosm at the start averaged 310 and 309 mosm/L,
respectively. At the end, Sosm averaged 285 and Aosm averaged 301 mosm/L, giving 
a 16 mosm concentration gradient. Two days later, Sosm and Aosm were equal again.
It is concluded that the osmotic gradient at the end of 4 hours of HD favors
movement of water from the intravascular space into the ascitic fluid space until
osmotic equilibrium is once again achieved.

PMID: 3196574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. ASAIO Trans. 1988 Jul-Sep;34(3):692-5.

Altered humoral control of circulating volume during artificial circulation.

Taenaka Y(1), Yagura A, Takano H, Matsuda T, Noda H, Kinoshita M, Takatani S,
Akutsu T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Artifical Organs, National Cardiovascular Center Research
Institute, Osaka, Japan.

Plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) levels and plasma renin activity
(PRA) were measured in six left ventricular assist device (LVAD) goats, four
single artificial heart (SAH) goats, i.e., LVAD animals with fibrillated hearts, 
and 3 total artificial heart (TAH) calves. During the 4 week experiment, the ANP 
levels in the SAH goats increased to 516 pg/ml from the control value of 61.8
pg/ml because of an elevated CVP of 13-21 mmHg, while those of the LVAD goats
were near the lower limit of the control values. The TAH calves had slightly
decreased ANP levels at 23-46 pg/ml after the third postoperative week, which did
not increase after the steep increase in CVP induced by the changes in the
driving conditions. The PRA levels were 10-50 times higher than control in the
SAH goats and a TAH calf whose CVP rose to 19 mmHg, although the cardiac output
was within normal limits.IN CONCLUSION: 1) The secretion of ANP secondary to
alteration in CVP was preserved in the LVAD recipients and enhanced diuresis,
while it was compromised in the TAH cases. 2) The PRA levels in cases with
elevated CVPs were high enough to suppress diuresis.

PMID: 2973792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Dev Psychobiol. 1988 Jul;21(5):431-44.

Development of sleep states in normal premature and full-term newborns.

Curzi-Dascalova L(1), Peirano P, Morel-Kahn F.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, Paris, France.

THE AIMS OF OUR STUDY WERE: 1) to answer the question "Do sleep states exist in
normal premature infants;" 2) to analyze the development of sleep cycle and sleep
state characteristics in premature and full-term newborns. Polygraph recordings
were done on 38 normal, appropriate for gestational age newborns, born at 30 to
41 weeks (w) of gestation. All infants fell asleep in active sleep (AS).
Postwaking AS was significantly shorter than the next AS. Mean sleep cycle
duration increased from approximately 46 min at 31-34 w of conceptional age (CA) 
to 70 min. at 35-36 w CA. In all infants we observed stable, greater than 5 min
AS and quiet sleep (QS) periods, as defined by EEG and REM criteria.
Indeterminate sleep was about 30% of the total sleep cycle at 31-34 w; it
decreased to 12% at 35-36 w. Both duration and percentage of AS and QS
significantly increased at 35-36 w and remained stable up to 39-41 w CA. Values
of QS were significantly reduced when defined by additional criteria (respiratory
rate, tonic chin EMG or motility). Concordance of QS criteria was not
significantly better in older versus younger groups of infants. At all ages, AS
values were insensitive to changes in the criteria chosen to define them. The
contrast, starting from 31-34 w CA, between AS and QS as defined by EEG and REM
criteria could account for state differences in the control of many physiological
variables in prematures.

PMID: 3402666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1988 Jul;96(1):102-16.

Survival, functional status, and reoperations after repair of tetralogy of Fallot
with pulmonary atresia.

Kirklin JW(1), Blackstone EH, Shimazaki Y, Maehara T, Pacifico AD, Kirklin JK,
Bargeron LM Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama, Birmingham School of Medicine
35294.

DATA: Among 139 patients who underwent repair of tetralogy with pulmonary
atresia, survival rates at 1 month and at 1, 5, 10, and 20 years were 85%, 82%,
76%, 69%, and 58%, respectively. The hazard function (instantaneous risk of
dying) was greatest immediately after operation and declined thereafter, but a
low constant hazard persisted for as long as the patients were followed up.
Multivariately, the postrepair ratio between peak right ventricular and left
ventricular pressures measured in the operating room provided the most
information relative to the probability of death after repair, and
cardiopulmonary bypass time the next. When morphologic abnormalities of the
pulmonary circulation were considered in the multivariate analysis for risk
factors for death, the size of the pulmonary arteries provided the most
information, followed by the number of large aortopulmonary collateral arteries. 
The postrepair peak right ventricular/left ventricular pressure ratio was lower
the day after operation than in the operating room in 65% of the patients in whom
the measurements were made. Recurrent or residual ventricular septal defects
necessitating rerepair occurred in four patients (3% of hospital survivors). Most
surviving patients were in New York Heart Association class I at the time of
follow-up.
INFERENCES: Early, intermediate, and long-term survival is less good after repair
of tetralogy with pulmonary atresia than after repair of tetralogy with pulmonary
stenosis. This is related primarily to the greater prevalence of high peak right 
ventricular/left ventricular pressure ratio measured in the operating room in the
former group. Both the postrepair peak right ventricular/left ventricular
pressure ratio in the operating room and the probability of death are inversely
related to the size of the pulmonary arteries and directly to the number of large
aortopulmonary collateral arteries. This and inferences from other risk factors
may be helpful in achieving better results in the future.

PMID: 3386286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1988 Jul;96(1):44-53.

Long-term neonatal heart preservation.

Davtyan HG(1), Corno AF, Laks H, Bhuta S, Flynn WM, Laidig C, Chang P, Drinkwater
D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, UCLA Medical Center 90024.

Donor availability is a major limiting factor in neonatal heart transplantation. 
Prolonging donor heart preservation would facilitate distant heart procurement.
Forty-two neonatal (1 to 5 days) piglet hearts in seven groups were arrested with
cold cardioplegic solutions, stored for 12 hours at 4 degrees C in storage
solutions, and reperfused with blood from an adult support pig. The cardioplegic 
solutions used were a crystalloid solution with potassium chloride 30 mEq/L and
bicarbonate (Stanford), the Stanford cardioplegic solution with the addition of
calcium (1.2 mmol/L), or an intracellular solution (Sacks) with added glucose.
Storage solutions were normal saline, Sacks II, or Sacks II with glucose 20 gm/L.
Reperfusion was done with normal blood or modified blood for 20 minutes with
superoxide dismutase, catalase, aspartate, glutamate, citrate-phosphate-dextrose,
potassium, tromethamine, and 50% dextrose followed by normal blood. Evaluation of
stroke work index after 60 minutes of recovery (as percent of control) was
performed using the isolated, blood perfused, working heart preparation in all
groups: Group I (Stanford cardioplegia, saline storage, normal blood reperfusion)
had a recovery of 11%; group II (Stanford + calcium, saline, normal blood) 8%;
group III (Stanford + calcium, saline, modified blood, superoxide dismutase
35,000 U/L, catalase 35,000 U/L) 37%; group IV (Stanford + calcium, Sacks II,
modified blood, superoxide dismutase 35,000 U/L, catalase 35,000 U/L), 47%; group
V (Stanford + calcium, Sacks + glucose, modified blood, superoxide dismutase
35,000 U/L, catalase 105,000 U/L) 89%; group VI (Stanford + calcium, Sacks +
glucose, modified blood, superoxide dismutase 150,000 U/L, catalase 150,000 U/L) 
107%; group VII (Sacks + glucose, Sacks + glucose, modified blood, superoxide
dismutase 35,000 U/L, catalase 105,000 U/L) 115%.CONCLUSIONS: The neonatal heart 
stored hypothermically for 12 hours tolerates normal blood reperfusion poorly.
Modified blood reperfusion markedly improves the recovery. Complete functional
recovery was achieved by the intracellular Sacks plus glucose storage solution
and modified blood reperfusion with oxygen-derived free radical scavengers (high 
catalase). Extended preservation of the neonatal heart is feasible.

PMID: 3290588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. J Trauma. 1988 Jul;28(7):947-54.

Postocclusive transcutaneous oximetry in followup assessment of tibial nonunion
and healed tibia fractures.

Kwong LM(1), Johanson PH, Klein SR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Harbor/UCLA Medical Center, Torrance 90509.

Transcutaneous oximetry measurements were performed on 25 limbs in 25 patients
with clinical and radiographic nonunion, and compared with data obtained from
patients with healed tibia fractures and a control group of nonfractured
extremities. A technique of "stress testing" vascular inflow patterns by
temporary occlusion of arterial inflow was utilized to accentuate differences in 
perfusion not apparent at rest between normal limbs and those with inflow
impairment. Changes in postocclusive hyperemic response were monitored by changes
in transcutaneous oxygen detected by sensors placed over the dorsum of the foot, 
at the fracture site, over the anterior compartment, and at the chest. No
statistically significant differences were found between the control group and
the group of united tibia fractures. Analysis of results using the unpaired
Student's t-test demonstrated statistically significant differences between the
control and nonunion groups at each limb site tested (p less than 0.05). The
prolonged oxygen recovery time values found in more than half the limbs with
nonunion are consistent with the presence of impaired oxygenation following
physiologic stress. The impairment of oxygenation appears to be on a perfusion
basis and reflects the limited capacity of many limbs with tibial nonunion to
respond to experimental ischemia with immediate compensatory hyperemia.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: This technique is a feasible method for serially assessing the
regional oxygenation of a limb, and substantiates ischemia as a possible factor
in the genesis of tibial nonunion.

PMID: 3398092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Laryngol Rhinol Otol (Stuttg). 1988 Jul;67(7):335-9.

[Plasma concentrations of lidocaine and prilocaine following infiltration
anesthesia in otorhinolaryngologic surgery].

[Article in German]

Bachmann B(1), Biscoping J, Adams HA, Sokolovski A, Ratthey K, Hempelmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Anaesthesiologie und Operative Intensivmedizin,
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen.

Infiltration anaesthesia is still relevant for the surgical treatment of patients
in otorhinolaryngology. The injection of local anaesthetics in well vascularised 
areas constantly causes the danger of high plasma concentrations of local
anaesthetics combined with undesirable side effects. In our study we tried to
determine the development of plasma concentrations of local anaesthetics in
patients scheduled for routine tonsillectomies and tympanoplasty.MATERIALS AND
METHODS: In 45 patients the development of plasma concentrations was measured
immediately after the injection at short intervals; the samples were obtained
between 1 minute and 60 minutes after the first injection. Group 1: Lidocaine
0.5% with epinephrine (1:200,000) 15-20 ml for tonsillectomy (n = 18). Group 2:
Lidocaine 0.5% with epinephrine (1:200,000) 8-15 ml for tympanoplasty (n = 15).
Group 3: Prilocaine 1% with epinephrine (1:200,000) 8-15 ml for tympanoplasty (n 
= 15). For tactical reasons infiltration anaesthesia for the patients of group 2 
was - in addition to general anaesthesia - applied by the otorhinolaryngologist, 
whereas the patients of groups 1 and 3 were operated exclusively under local
anaesthesia.
RESULTS: Within the first minute after the initial injection plasma
concentrations of the local anesthetic increased close to toxic threshold levels 
that are associated with undesirable systemic side effects. In the patients of
group 1, who underwent tonsillectomy, plasma concentrations of 4-7 micrograms/ml 
were found during the first minute. The highest average values always appeared
within the first five minutes: group 1 2.07 micrograms/ml, group 2: 0.45
micrograms/ml, and group 3: 1.15 micrograms/ml.
DISCUSSION: With infiltration anaesthesia in well vascularised areas it may
happen that there are--mainly in the early stage--high plasma concentrations of
the applied substances, although the total dose was below the known maximum.
Despite careful technique (repeated aspiration test in two levels) at least
partial intravascular injections are apparently not always avoidable according to
the pharmacokinetic data. Our results demonstrate that in addition to a safe
peripheral venous line and prophylactic oxygen therapy, intraoperative monitoring
of blood pressure, heart rate, electrocardiogram and verbal patient monitoring is
of advantage in this group of patients. In our opinion the "standby function" of 
an anaesthesiologist can avoid severe complications.

PMID: 3210863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Jul;40(7):835-40.

[Studies of intra-arterial hypertensive chemotherapy with cisplatin and
peplomycin in advanced cancer of the uterine cervix--suitable dose of angiotensin
II determined by intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwanari O(1), Date Y, Nakayama S, Miyako J, Kijima S, Moriyama M, Yamamoto K,
Takahashi K, Iida K, Kitao M, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shimane Medical University.

We have been treating advanced cancer of the cervix uteri with intra-arterial
cisplatin (CDDP) and peplomycin (PEP) (injected into the bilateral internal iliac
artery), combined with radiotherapy and hysterectomy. Concomitant angiotensin II 
(ATII) administered by intravenous drip infusion was found to double tumoral
blood flow and thereby to enhance the efficiency of the intra-arterial
chemotherapeutic regimen. In the present study, hypertensive intra-arterial
chemotherapy utilizing ATII was administered to a small group of patients with
advanced cancer of the cervix uteri while ascertaining the increase in
intratumoral blood flow by intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography. The
subjects were 10 patients with stage IIb or more advanced cancer of the cervix
uteri.RESULTS: A 2-fold or greater increase in tumoral blood flow was attained in
those patients who showed concurrently a 1.5 fold or greater increase in mean
blood pressure and an increase in mean blood pressure to 150mmHg or higher. In 2 
patients, ATII infusion failed to raise blood pressure to a therapeutically
adequate level. At 1 week after the treatment in question histological evidence
indicated unequivocal degenerative changes and necrotic changes in tumor cells.
Many plasma cells, lymphocytes + and granulocytes appeared around necrosis
changed carcinoma nests.

PMID: 2458418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. No Shinkei Geka. 1988 Jul;16(8):977-82.

[Emergency embolectomy in embolic occlusion of the middle cerebral artery].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitami K(1), Tsuchida H, Sohma T, Hamajima I, Sakamaki Y, Takeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Sapporo City General Hospital.

The natural course of embolic occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) has
many variations, which include the frequent appearance of hemorrhagic infarction.
There are also fatal cases among which severe ischemic edema is found. There
haven's been many cases reported of MCA embolectomy in the acute stage, and
findings concerning them have been very complicated and hard to analyze.
Nevertheless there certainly exist cases where remarkable improvement of
neurological signs is shown soon after the procedure. Five cases of emergency
embolectomy have been undergone in our hospital in the past 2 years. The results 
were better than results obtained in cases where embolectomy was not performed.
Three male and two female cases are the objectives, whose average age was 61 +/- 
6 years (ranging from 54 to 67 years). The left side of the MC was involved in
three cases and the right in two, and all cases had past history of heart
diseases which may have been the embolic source. Each case had undergone CT scan 
soon after admission to make sure not to be the other type of intracranial
lesion. Cerebral angiography was performed next, to discover the site of the
occlusion and the degree of collateral circulation. Emergency embolectomy was
performed as soon as possible in every case. The functional outcome was estimated
from the ADL three months later using the international fifth degree
grading.RESULTS: The period from onset to recanalization ranges between 4.5 to 11
hours (average 6.9 +/- 2.5 hours). Good MC recanalization was demonstrated in
each case angiographically within a week after the operation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3173635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. No To Shinkei. 1988 Jul;40(7):603-8.

[Experimental cerebral vasospasm induced by oxyhemoglobin and the sympathetic
nervous system (Part 2): An investigation into denervation supersensitivity].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwai R(1), Endo S, Kamiyama K, Otsuji T, Sugita T, Takaku A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical University, Japan.

The pathological mechanism of cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid
hemorrhage has not been well clarified until now. There have been reports that
denervation supersensitivity in cerebral vessels occurring after subarachnoid
hemorrhage may possible play a role in the appearance of cerebral vasospasm. On
the other hand, we have accepted that oxyhemoglobin (Oxy-Hb) is an important
spasmogenic substance. In the present study, we investigated the effect of
chemical denervation (reserpine or 6-hydroxydopamine: 6-OHDA) and surgical
denervation (bilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy: SCG) on the constrictive
sensitivity of cat basilar arteries to noradrenaline (Nor) and oxyhemoglobin
(Oxy-Hb) in situ.METHOD: Adult cats were anesthetized with intramuscular
pentobarbital and maintained on a respirator through a tracheostomy. By the
transclival approach, the basilar artery was exposed. A cannula was then inserted
into the subarachnoid space, and through it, Oxy-Hb and Nor were injected. The
sequential changes in caliber of the basilar artery were measured using
photography. SCG was done 7 days before the application of Nor or Oxy-Hb and 14
days before application of Oxy-Hb. Pretreatment with reserpine was done as
follows: 1 mg/kg of reserpine was injected subcutaneously once each day for 2
days. On the following day, the sensitivity of the basilar arteries to Nor or
Oxy-Hb was assessed. Pretreatment with 6-OHDA was done as follows: 5 mg of 6-OHDA
was dissolved in 1.0 ml of artificial CSF, and then injected into the cisterna
magna. Seven days later, Nor or Oxy-Hb was applied.
RESULTS: Pretreatment with reserpine tended to increase the vasoconstriction
induced by 10(-7)-10(-4) M of Nor and the constriction induced by 10(-3) M of Nor
was increased statistically (P less than 0.05). Cisterna magna injection of
6-OHDA tended to increase the vasoconstriction induced by Nor. SGG tended to
increase the vasoconstriction induced by 10(-7)-10(-4) M of Nor and at a dose of 
10(-3) M of Nor, the constriction of the basilar arteries was increased
statistically (P less than 0.05). However, pretreatment with reserpine, 6-OHDA
and SCG did not increase the vasoconstriction induced by Oxy-Hb. These results
lead us to suggest that denervation supersensitivity does not participate in the 
vasoconstriction induced by Oxy-Hb.

PMID: 3146988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Z Gastroenterol. 1988 Jul;26(7):363-73.

[Quantitative and qualitative findings of hepatitis B virus-associated antigens, 
receptors and antibodies in the course of the acute phase of hepatitis B
infection].

[Article in German]

Gröticke JW(1), Gerken G, Steinmann J, Arnold W.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniken der Freien Hansestadt Bremen, Zentralkrankenhaus St.-Jürgen-Strasse.

Receptors for pHSA may be the links between HBV and hepatocytes. Therefore, we
evaluated the correlation between serum binding activity for pHSA during the
acute phase of hepatitis B in relation to the decrease of surface antigen
concentration.METHODS: 130 sera from 22 patients with acute (HBeAg-positive)
hepatitis B were obtained weekly during an average interval of 7 weeks after the 
onset of the disease. R-pHSA were tested by RIA in 4 titre steps (1:50, 1:500,
1:5000, 1:50,000). HBsAg was analysed quantitatively by RIA according to the
standard serum of the Paul-Ehrlich-Institute.

PMID: 2851892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1988 Jun;118(2):179-86.

Corticosteroid-induced stimulation of atrial natriuretic peptide in man.

Saxenhofer H(1), Angst M, Weidmann P, Shaw SG, Ferrier C.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, University of Berne, Switzerland.

Previously, we reported elevated plasma immunoreactive ANP (irANP) levels from
the 2nd to the 9th day of administering either prednisone, 50 mg/day, or 9
alpha-fludrocortisone acetate (9 alpha F), 0.6 mg/day, to normal humans. To
investigate the course of plasma irANP levels during the first 48 h of
corticosteroid administration, 9 healthy men (mean age +/- SEM, 24 +/- 1 years)
received in randomised sequence A) a 4-h iv infusion of prednisolone sodium
tetrahydrophthalate followed by oral administration of prednisone for 2 days; or 
B) a 4-h infusion of aldosterone followed by oral administration of 9 alpha F for
2 days. Basal supine plasma irANP levels averaged 32 +/- 5 ng/l in study A and 30
+/- 6 ng/l in study B; they were unchanged or even deceased up to 24 h of
glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid administration, but rose (P less than 0.01)
to 56 +/- 9 and 62 +/- 12 ng/l at 48 h, respectively, of the two interventions.
During glucocorticoid treatment, blood pressure (BP) and indices of the
sodium-fluid volume state were unchanged after 48 h. During 9 alpha F
administration, body weight increased (1.1 +/- 0.3%, P less than 0.001), whereas 
urinary sodium excretion (63 +/- 7%, P less than 0.001), hematocrit (4.1 +/-
1.1%, P less than 0.001), and plasma renin activity (38 +/- 4%, P less than
0.001) decreased.CONCLUSIONS: The increase in circulating irANP at 48 h of
administration of either a glucocorticoid or a mineralocorticoid demonstrates a
distinct but slow response of the ANP system to these corticosteroids in normal
humans.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2968749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jun;37(6):381-3.

[Numbness of the lower lip following general anesthesia].

[Article in German]

Lorentz A(1), Podstawski H, Osswald PM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anaesthesiologie und Reanimation, Fakultät für klinische Medizin
Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg.

Injuries to nerves of the head occur infrequently following general anesthesia.
Lesions of the facial and mental nerves have been reported.CASE REPORT: A healthy
40-year-old woman was scheduled for derotation osteotomy of the left femur. The
previous medical history included ten uneventful general anesthetics mainly for
abdominal and orthopedic surgery. Routine preoperative investigations were
unremarkable. The patient received midazolam for premedication. Induction of
anesthesia was carried out with thiopental and succinylcholine. Ventilation with 
the anesthesia mask was difficult, and considerable pressure was exerted on the
mask. Intubation of the trachea was accomplished on the second attempt after
additional doses of thiopental and succinylcholine and intermittent manual
ventilation by mask, which lasted for 5-6 min. The further course of anesthesia
was uneventful. The surgical procedure lasted for 1 1/2 h. On the 1st day after
anesthesia the patient noticed numbness of the lower lip. Perception of
temperature and touch was impaired. The area of paresthesia/anesthesia
corresponded to the area of innervation of the upper branches of the mental
nerves. Complete remission occurred within 6 weeks.
DISCUSSION: Injury to nerves of the head due to pressure applied during
anesthesia is infrequent. Lesions of branches of the facial nerve--mainly the
marginal mandibular branch--have been reported. We found only two case reports of
injury to the mental nerve in the literature. In general, long lasting anesthesia
delivered via face mask preceded the injury. It was frequently difficult to
retain airway patency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3407902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jun;37(6):356-65.

[Local and global contractility of the right ventricle in ischemia of the free
ventricular wall. An animal experiment study].

[Article in German]

Forst H(1), Racenberg J, Messmer K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anaesthesiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Klinikum
Grosshadern.

Impaired right ventricular (RV) performance due to increased RV afterload in
patients with sepsis or acute respiratory failure has been attributed to relative
hypoperfusion and myocardial ischemia of the stressed free RV wall. There is
evidence from experiments, however, that the normal RV is able to respond to a
pressure load with adequate increases in myocardial blood flow. Whether or not
ischemia of the free wall contributes to RV failure and whether restoration of RV
perfusion can improve RV performance remains to be elucidated. The aim of this
study was to compare local RV contractility to parameters of global RV
contractility prior to and after induction of ischemia to its free wall.METHODS: 
Studies were performed in a total of 16 open-chest dogs using sonomicrometry to
determine local contractility (velocity and percentage of fiber shortening) in
the RV inflow tract (n = 8) prior to, 5, and 30 min after acute ligation of the
right coronary artery (RCA). Parameters of global RV contractility (dP/dtmax,
Vmax) were derived from intraventricular pressure measurements (tip-manometer).
Regional myocardial blood flow (n = 6) was determined by the radioactive
microsphere technique. Furthermore, the septal-lateral diameters of the RV (n =
8) and left ventricle (LV, n = 5), as well as the anterior-posterior diameter (n 
= 4) of the LV were measured simultaneously by use of sonomicrometers (Fig. 1);
ventricular pressure-diameter diagrams were constructed in order to assess the
dynamic geometry of the heart.
RESULTS: Acute ligation of the RCA resulted in a reduction of myocardial blood
flow (-39% to -72%), predominantly in the RV inflow tract (Table 1). The segment 
length of the RV free wall and diameter of the RV increased following RCA
ligation (Fig. 3a) whereas the septal-lateral diameter of the LV decreased
concomitantly. The LV anterior-posterior diameter remained unaffected (Table 2,
Fig. 3b). While local RV contractility (percent shortening and velocity of fiber 
shortening) deteriorated (-40% and -32%, respectively), the parameters of global 
RV contractility (dP/dtmax, Vmax) remained unchanged (Fig. 4a). Heart rate, mean 
arterial pressure, RV systolic pressure, and LV filling pressure remained
unchanged (Fig. 4b), whereas RV filling pressure increased (+52%) and cardiac
output was reduced (-13%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3407899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jun;108(6):800-5.

Tracheal occlusion pressure: a simple index to monitor respiratory muscle fatigue
during acute respiratory failure in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.

Murciano D(1), Boczkowski J, Lecocguic Y, Emili JM, Pariente R, Aubier M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinique Pneumologique, Hôpital Beaujon, Faculté X, Bichat: Clichy, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess respiratory muscle fatigue in acute respiratory
failure in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and evaluate its
influence on weaning patients from mechanical ventilation.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: We studied the time course of tracheal occlusion pressure
(P0.1) and high-to-low ratio of the diaphragmatic electromyogram in 16 patients
in acute respiratory failure with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
METHODS: All patients were intubated and studied during a 15-minute weaning
period from ventilation. Minute ventilation (VE), arterial blood gases, P0.1 and 
high-to-low ratio of the diaphragm were measured every day from the onset to the 
end of acute failure (before extubation) at 5 and 15 minutes into the weaning
period. The diaphragmatic electromyogram was recorded with an esophageal
electrode and the high-to-low ratio of the electrical signal analyzed to assess
diaphragmatic fatigue.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In all patients P0.1 was markedly increased (7.1
+/- 2.4 cm H2O, mean +/- SE) on the first day of acute failure and did not change
during weaning. In 11 patients, P0.1 had decreased to 4.7 +/- 1.8 cm H2O (P less 
than or equal to 0.002) before extubation (which was done after 5 to 9 days). In 
these patients, the high-to-low ratio of the diaphragm decreased rapidly-during
the first minutes of weaning on the first day of acute failure and remained low
throughout weaning, whereas before extubation no decrease in high-to-low ratio
was seen during weaning. In 5 patients, P0.1 did not change significantly from
the onset of acute failure and the high-to-low ratio remained low before
extubation. These 5 patients had to be reintubated within 2 to 6 days. In both
groups of patients, VE did not change significantly from the first to last day of
acute failure (10.3 +/- 3 compared with 10.7 +/- 2.1 min-1), whereas blood gases 
during room air breathing improved significantly from the first to last day of
acute failure, respectively, in each group (arterial oxygen pressure [PaO2], 33.5
+/- 1.5 compared with 44 +/- 9 mm Hg (P less than or equal to 0.05) and PaO2 56
+/- 2.3 compared with 49 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Extubation should not be done in patients with respiratory muscle
fatigue despite improvement in arterial blood gases and clinical status; and P0.1
provides a valid and simple index to assess the likelihood of respiratory muscle 
fatigue.

PMID: 3369770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jun;108(6):791-6.

Electrocerebral accompaniments of syncope associated with malignant ventricular
arrhythmias.

Aminoff MJ(1), Scheinman MM, Griffin JC, Herre JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California, San
Francisco.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the electrocerebral and clinical accompaniments of
syncope associated with malignant ventricular cardiac arrhythmias.
DESIGN: Survey of clinical and electroencephalographic changes during induced
cardiac dysrhythmia.
SETTING: Clinical electrophysiology laboratory of a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Fourteen patients with automatic cardioverter defibrillators due to
previous cardiac arrest or life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia.
INTERVENTION: Deliberate induction of cardiac dysrhythmia for routine,
postoperative testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator.
Continuous electrocardiographic, electroencephalographic, and video recording.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-two episodes of ventricular tachycardia or 
fibrillation, lasting 15 to 126 seconds, were induced with definite loss of
consciousness in 15 instances and probable loss in 2. In 10 episodes, there were 
motor accompaniments to the unconsciousness characterized by tonic activity or
irregular muscle twitching. On regaining consciousness, patients were usually
obtunded or confused for up to 30 seconds, depending on duration of induced
cardiac dysrhythmia and unconsciousness. Electroencephalographic changes were
variable. Background slowing was usually followed by relative loss of
electrocerebral activity. In 2 patients, attenuation of background
electrocerebral activity followed little or no change in background rhythms. In 5
episodes, electroencephalograms showed no change before loss of consciousness,
but slowed thereafter in 4.
CONCLUSIONS: Conspicuous motor activity may accompany syncope due to malignant
ventricular arrhythmia and complicate the clinical distinction of syncope from
seizures. Post-syncopal confusion generally lasts for less than 30 seconds. The
electroencephalographic accompaniments of acute cerebral anoxia leading to
syncope, and of the motor accompaniments of syncope, are more variable than
previously appreciated, but electrographic seizure activity does not occur.

PMID: 3369769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jun;108(6):824-8.

Weight-bearing exercise training and lumbar bone mineral content in
postmenopausal women.

Dalsky GP(1), Stocke KS, Ehsani AA, Slatopolsky E, Lee WC, Birge SJ Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of weight-bearing exercise training and
subsequent detraining on lumbar bone mineral content in postmenopausal women.
DESIGN: Non-randomized, controlled, short-term (9 months) trial and long-term (22
months) exercise training and detraining (13 months).
SETTING: Section of applied physiology at a university school of medicine.
PATIENTS: Thirty-five healthy, sedentary postmenopausal women, 55 to 70 years
old. All women completed the study. There was 90% compliance with exercise
training.
INTERVENTIONS: All women were given calcium, 1500 mg daily. The exercise group
did weight-bearing exercise (walking, jogging, stair climbing) at 70% to 90% of
maximal oxygen uptake capacity for 50 to 60 min, 3 times weekly.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bone mineral content increased 5.2% (95%
confidence interval [CI], 2.0% to 8.4%; P = 0.0037) above baseline after
short-term training whereas there was no change (-1.4%) in the control group.
After 22 months of exercise, bone mineral content was 6.1% (95% CI, 3.9% to 8.3% 
above baseline; P = 0.0001) in the long-term training group. After 13 months of
decreased activity, bone mass was 1.1% above baseline in the detraining group.
CONCLUSIONS: Weight-bearing exercise led to significant increases above baseline 
in bone mineral content which were maintained with continued training in older,
postmenopausal women. With reduced weight-bearing exercise, bone mass reverted to
baseline levels. Further studies are needed to determine the threshold exercise
prescription that will produce significant increases in bone mass.

PMID: 3259410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:39-43.

[Physical properties of the aorta and left ventricular geometry evaluated by
Doppler echocardiography in normal subjects].

[Article in French]

Dahan M(1), Darondeau N, Neukirch F, Jaeger P, Solal AC, Juliard JM, Gourgon R.

Author information: 
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital Bichat, Paris.

In 45 normotensive subjects (21-84 years) we simultaneously measured: 1) arterial
pressure (AP) according to guidelines of the World-health-organization; 2) left
ventricular (LV) wall thickness (WT) and antero-posterior radius (r), aortic
diameter (AD) by M-mode echo with 2D echo control; 3) isthmus--diaphragm pulse
wave delay (PWD) by measurement of time, between the foot of aortic velocity
curves, respectively in the isthmus and near the diaphragm; 4) sternal length
(L). We derived WT/r ratio, pulse wave velocity (PWV) as the ratio L/PWD, the
product AD X PWD and the PWD/AD.RESULTS: AP, WT/r, PWD, PWV, AD, AD X CFD, PWD/AD
are significantly correlated with age (respective r = 0.30, p = 0.05; r = 0.61, p
less than 0.001; r = -0.67, p less than 0.001; r = 0.73, p less than 0.001; r =
0.61, p less than 0.001; r = -0.49, p less than 0.001; r = 0.52, p less than
0.001. WT/r is significantly correlated with PWD (r = -0.52, p less than 0.001); 
PWV (r = 0.50, p less than 0.001); AD (r = 0.44, p less than 0.03); AD X PWD (r =
-0.38, p = 0.01) and PWD/AD (r = 0.35, p less than 0.02) but not systolic
AP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3142425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:33-7.

[Pulse pressure and echocardiographic parameters in essential arterial
hypertension].

[Article in French]

Pannier B(1), Brunel P, Laurent S, Asmar R, Safar M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de diagnostic, hôpital Broussais, Paris, France.

We measured systolic, diastolic, mean (MAP) and pulsed (PP) arterial pressures
(Dinamap 845 XT), carotid femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) and cardiac
parameters (echocardiography) to evaluate myocardiac mass and indexed cardiac
mass to body surface area (IM) in 47 subjects (11 normotensives and 36 with
sustained essential hypertension). Hypertensives were allocated between two
groups with same age, weight and height, same mean arterial pressure (119.8 +/-
9.1 mmHg, 119.7 +/- 11.9 mmHg, NS) and PWV (11.90 +/- 2.20 m/s, 12.51 +/- 1.83
m/s, NS): group I (22 subjects) with pulsed pressure less than 60 mmHg, group II 
(14 subjects) with pulsed pressure greater than or equal to 60 mmHg. (Table: see 
text). Newman-Keuls between group I and group II: p less than 0.01 for cardiac
mass and IM, p less than 0.001 for PP. Cardiac mass (p less than 0.01) and
indexed mass to body surface area (p less than 0.01) were greater in group II
(with pp greater than or equal to 60 mmHg) than in group I.CONCLUSION: arterial
hypertension is linked with left ventricular hypertrophy which is increased when 
pulsed pressure is enhanced. This fact could give evidence of importance of
pulsatory work in cardiac consequence of hypertension.

PMID: 3142423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:275-80.

[Reproducibility and development of pulse wave velocity at rest and during
exertion].

[Article in French]

Siché JP(1), de Gaudemaris R, Mallion JM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de consultation d'hypertension artérielle, médecine interne et
cardiologie, hôpital A.-Michallon, CHRU, Grenoble.

PURPOSE: to search in which situation the PWV is the most reproducible.
METHODOLOGY: PWV is measured with a continuous doppler technique along the
subclavial radial arterial segment on the right forearm. 30 normotensive subjects
(20-30 years) are studied twice running at 24-hour interval at rest and during
stress (ergometric bicycle, stress levels: 50, 75, 100 watts/mn).
STATISTICS: Student test and correlation when the data are normally distributed.
RESULTS: mean PWV increases progressively with blood pressure during stress.
REST: 10.0, 50W: 11.3, 75W: 12.33, 100W: 13.32, 4 mn rest: 10.6. Mean differences
(MD) with standard deviations (SD) and correlation (COR) are as following:
(Table: see text). If we take into consideration MD, SD and COR between the 2
stress tests, 75W level appears to be the most reproducible.
CONCLUSION: these data must be taken into account when using PWV to appreciate
the vascular effect of some medications especially in hypertension.

PMID: 3142421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:251-4.

[Evaluation of the importance of ambulatory blood pressure measurement in the
diagnostic and therapeutic management of hypertension].

[Article in French]

de Gaudemaris R(1), de Valukhoff A, Siché JP, Debru JL, Mikler F, Mallion JM.

Author information: 
(1)Service médecine interne et cardiologie, CHRG, Grenoble.

PURPOSE: evaluate, in a Public Health approach, the contribution of ambulatory
blood pressure recordings (ABPR) in the diagnostic and therapeutic management of 
hypertension.
METHODS: a retrospective study is led among 32 physicians who have addressed 473 
patients for ABP: 182 for borderline hypertension (B-H) diagnosis, 94 for
treatment decision (NT-H) and 197 for a therapy efficiency assessment (T-H). ABPR
is performed with the non invasive Spacelabs device on a 24 hour period. The data
interpretation is provided by statistical comparison of patient's data with those
of a same age and sex 30 normotensive subjects group.
RESULTS: The table presents the action of physician according to the ABPR motive 
and answer: TT = therapy, NT = no therapy, ADJ = adjustment, NADJ = no
adjustment. (Table: see text).
CONCLUSION: physicians follow drastically ABPR interpretation: a large number of 
patient avoid a treatment (68 percent of B-H group and 63 percent of NT-H group),
the therapy is modified for 40 percent of the T-H patients. Such evidence may
have some Public Health implications.

PMID: 3142417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:231-4.

[Validation of an self-measurement blood pressure device].

[Article in French]

Fouqueray B(1), Julien J, Pagny JY, Jeunemaitre X, Sassano P, Battaglia C, Plouin
PF.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'hypertension artérielle, hôpital Broussais, Paris.

The aim of this study was to test the self-blood pressure (Self-BP) measurement
device Copal UA-251 (Philips). This device uses auscultatory method for BP
measurement. It was compared to reference methods: intraarterial and Hawksley
Random Zero in 38 patients, selected in two groups: group RO (n = 18), compared
Copal to Random Zero. 20 simultaneous measurements were recorded, with devices
inversion at eleventh BP measurement, in 18 treated or untreated hypertensive
patients. Group IA (n = 20) included 20 patients and compared Copal to
intra-aortic measurement. Three simultaneous measurements were recorded, before a
coronarography was performed, in 20 normo or hypertensive patients.RESULTS:
(Table: see text). 1) A significant difference was recorded for SBP evaluated by 
Copal versus RO and for DBP measured by Copal versus IA. 2) A significant
correlation was assessed between the different methods of measurement. 3)
Differences between couples of RO-Copal values are not correlated to BP level,
neither for SBP (r = 0.07), nor DBP (r = 0.05). Same results occur for IA-Copal
values (SBP: r = 0.36, DBP: r = 0.30). 4) No order effect was found; no
discrepancy between arms occurred in BP measurement.
CONCLUSION: comparing intraaortic measure, Copal is efficient for SBP
measurement, but overestimate DBP. Compared to R0, Copal overestimates SBP, but
is efficient for DBP measurement. Regarding these results, a self-BP measurement 
is possible with this device.

PMID: 3142412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Jun;81 Spec No:165-9.

[Prognostic value of serum creatinine in treated hypertensives. A case-controlled
study].

[Article in French]

Froment A(1), Vincent P, Milon H, Barthelet M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital cardio-vasculaire et pneumologique Louis-Pradel, Lyon-Bron.

The aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of serum creatinine (SC),
in treated hypertensive subjects (HT). In a clinical population of 2738 HT
consecutively examined between october 1969 and december 1982, as in-patients (n 
= 1599) or out-patients (n = 1139): 152 had a moderate elevation (ME) of SC:
below 178 USI but above the "normal limit" (124 USI in men, 106 USI in women); 95
had a severe elevation (SE) of SC: above 17 USI. Whenever possible, each of these
cases was matched to a control, belonging to the same population: same sex, same 
age (+/- 5 years), same group (in-patient or out-patient), same date of initial
examination (+/- 6 months), but normal SC. 119 ME and 63 SE could be matched. The
response rate of the mortality survey (november 1985) was 100 per cent. The mean 
follow-up period was 10 years (range 3 to 16 years).RESULTS: At initial
examination, ME and SE cases differed significantly from their controls in
several variables (mainly: more frequent T or J-ST ECG abnormalities and stage
III-IV retinal changes); The life-table survival rate was moderately and non
significantly reduced in ME cases (57 per cent at 10 years vs 66 per cent in
controls); this decrease was only observed and significant (p less than 0.001) in
subjects aged 60 to 79 years. In SE cases, survival rate was markedly reduced (43
per cent at 10 years vs 73 per cent in controls, p less than 0.001) and this
reduction is observed at least since the age 40.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3142402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1988 Jun;24(6):973-8.

Kaposi's sarcoma: malignant tumor or proliferative disorder?

Azzarelli A(1), Mazzaferro V, Quagliuolo V, Audisio RA, Colella G, Bandieramonte 
G, Dossena G, Gennari L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology 'A', Istituto Nazionale Tumori of Milano, Italy.

In order to provide information on the response to treatments and
clinico-pathological pattern, the clinical course of 41 patients with classic
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) was reconsidered. Twenty-six cases presented a single
nodular lesion, and 15 multiple, pluricentric lesions. Surgery was the first
treatment for patients with single lesions, 14 of 26 (54%) patients had
recurrences: the disease-free interval ranged from a few months to 11 years. Five
cases had disseminated disease, three of these were preceded by local recurrence.
Cases with multiple lesions were treated by a combination of surgery, chemo- and 
radiation therapy (RT). In three cases spontaneous regression of disease was
observed and two of these are presently disease-free. After chemotherapy and RT, 
many patients had complete remission of disseminated disease for up to 40 months.
The drugs of first choice were vinblastine and bleomycin. Over all, only one
patient died of KS, 10 years after diagnosis, nevertheless the cure rate was very
poor and the final overall disease-free rate was around 30%. Proper treatment for
nodular or disseminated lesions provides a fair disease-free period.FINAL
CONSIDERATIONS: mortality of disease is exceptional despite the 80% risk of
recurrence or dissemination. Data from our series do not provide proof that
adequate control of the primary single lesion could screen against recurrence:
the interval between treatment of the first lesion and recurrence is sometimes
exceptionally long, up to more than 10 years, and for that it is not easy to
state when disease is really cured. These considerations and other analogies
between KS and lymphoproliferative disorders in immunodepressed people strongly
suggests the possibility of a non-malignant or even non-tumoral pattern to this
disease, with implications for therapeutic strategies.

PMID: 2457502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. J Clin Invest. 1988 Jun;81(6):1879-88.

Calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate as second messengers for vasopressin
in the rat inner medullary collecting duct.

Star RA(1), Nonoguchi H, Balaban R, Knepper MA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Kidney and Electrolyte Metabolism, National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Vasopressin increases both the urea permeability and osmotic water permeability
in the terminal part of the renal inner medullary collecting duct (terminal
IMCD). To identify the second messengers that mediate these responses, we
measured urea permeability, osmotic water permeability, intracellular calcium
concentration, and cyclic AMP accumulation in isolated terminal IMCDs. After
addition of vasopressin, a transient rise in intracellular calcium occurred that 
was coincident with increases in cyclic AMP accumulation and urea permeability.
Half-maximal increases in urea permeability and osmotic water permeability
occurred with 0.01 nM vasopressin. The threshold concentration for a measurable
increase in cyclic AMP accumulation was approximately 0.01 nM, while measurable
increases in intracellular calcium required much higher vasopressin
concentrations (greater than 0.1 nM). Exogenous cyclic AMP (1 mM 8-Br-cAMP)
mimicked the effect of vasopressin on urea permeability but did not produce a
measurable change in intracellular calcium concentration.CONCLUSIONS: (a) Cyclic 
AMP is the second messenger that mediates the urea permeability response to
vasopressin in the rat terminal IMCD. (b) Vasopressin increases the intracellular
calcium concentration in the rat terminal IMCD, but the physiological role of
this response is not yet known.

PMCID: PMC442639
PMID: 2838523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. J Endocrinol Invest. 1988 Jun;11(6):403-8.

Difference in species specificity of TSH receptor antibodies in Graves' disease
and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

de Bruin TW.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester
01605.

TSH receptor antibodies have been detected in the sera of patients with Graves'
disease (GD) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). Since non-human thyroid tissue
fractions or cells are used in the majority of assays, the species specificity of
TSH receptor antibodies in GD or HT could be important. The species specificity
was evaluated by means of an immunoprecipitation assay (IPA) using Triton X-100
solubilized TSH receptors prepared from human, porcine and rat thyroid as well as
guinea pig fat cells (GPFC). In each assay the majority (4 or 5) of the 6
patients with GD were IPA-positive. In contrast, 9 out of 11 patients (82%) with 
HT had a positive human and rat IPA, while only 3 out of 11 (27% p less than
0.05) sera were positive in the porcine and GPFC assays.CONCLUSIONS: no species
specificity of TSH receptor antibodies was detected for patients with GD; a
selective species specificity for human and rat TSH receptors was found for HT
sera. This suggests that TSH receptor antibodies in HT either recognize different
determinants on the receptor than the antibodies in GD or are of lower affinity. 
Furthermore, the use of porcine thyroid tissue or GPFC may lead to an
underestimation of the presence and level of TSH receptor antibodies in patients 
with HT.

PMID: 3209819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. J Surg Res. 1988 Jun;44(6):664-71.

Continuous infusion of tumor necrosis factor: mechanisms of toxicity in the rat.

Gaskill HV 3rd.

Author information: 
Department of Surgery, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio
78284-7842.

This study was designed to assess the toxicity of continuous infusion of tumor
necrosis factor (TNF) in the rat model. The effect of TNF on cell membranes was
assessed by diffusion of radiolabeled inulin (RI). The effect of concomitant
administration of the cytoprotectant prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) was also assessed.
Eighty rats were anesthetized and two osmotic pumps were implanted in the
peritoneal cavity of each rat. One pump contained either TNF (0.1 mg/kg/day) or
vehicle and the other either PGE1 (0.1 mcg/kg/min) or vehicle. Four groups
resulted: vehicle alone, PGE1 alone, TNF alone, and TNF + PGE1. After 5 days,
half of each group received intravenous RI and organ/blood radioactivity ratios
were compared at sacrifice 7 min later. Remaining animals had serum drawn for CBC
and electrolyte determination. Organ weights were determined in all animals. The 
effects of TNF and PGE1 were assessed by two-way ANOVA. Mortality in animals
infused with TNF was 20%. One animal in the control group died. TNF infusion
increased lung weight by 38% (697 +/- 49 vs 937 +/- 77 mg; P less than 0.05).
Liver weight was also increased in animals infused with TNF (6.7 +/- 0.2 vs 7.0
+/- 0.3 g; P less than 0.05). TNF infusion increased blood urea nitrogen and
decreased serum bicarbonate compared to controls. TNF had no effect on RI
diffusion. PGE1 did not alter the response to TNF.CONCLUSIONS: Continuous
infusion of TNF does not affect membrane permeability as assessed by inulin
diffusion. PGE1 does not cytoprotect against the toxicity of TNF. Evidence of
direct hepatic toxicity suggests that regional therapy via the hepatic artery or 
portal vein is contraindicated.

PMID: 3379943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1988 Jun;95(6):1048-58.

The structure of the pulmonary circulation in tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary 
atresia. A quantitative cineangiographic study.

Shimazaki Y(1), Maehara T, Blackstone EH, Kirklin JW, Bargeron LM Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

Cineangiograms of 172 patients with tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia
were qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed retrospectively.FINDINGS:
Twenty-eight (16%) patients had congenital absence of the central and unbranched 
hilar portions of the left or right pulmonary artery or both, and thus had
congenitally nonconfluent pulmonary arteries. Five additional patients (3%) with 
originally confluent pulmonary arteries had nonconfluent ones because of an
end-to-end surgical shunt, as did seven others (4%) because of thrombosis of one 
pulmonary artery. Among the 132 patients with confluent right and left pulmonary 
arteries, 70 (53% of 132) had incomplete arborization (distribution) of one or
both, as did 23 (82% of 28) of those with congenitally nonconfluent pulmonary
arteries (P for difference = 0.005). Ten (36% of 28) of the latter group had
fewer than 10 pulmonary vascular segments (normal is 20) in continuity with
central pulmonary arteries, compared with four (3%) of the former group. The
proximal left and right pulmonary arteries were small but variable in size in all
groups (median value 1.05 McGoon ratio), but were largest in the patients with
confluent pulmonary arteries. Seventy-nine (60% of 132) patients with confluent
left and right pulmonary arteries had large aortopulmonary collateral arteries,
as did 100% of those with congenitally nonconfluent pulmonary arteries (P less
than 0.001). The number of large aortopulmonary collateral arteries correlated
inversely with the completeness of arborization of the left and right pulmonary
arteries (P less than 0.0001). Inferences: Most patients with tetralogy and
pulmonary atresia have gross morphologic abnormalities in the pulmonary
vasculature and differ quantitatively in this regard from those with tetralogy
and pulmonary stenosis. The prevalences of the various types of these
abnormalities are considerably interrelated.

PMID: 3374156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Mol Immunol. 1988 Jun;25(6):527-33.

Activation of complement by human serum IgA, secretory IgA and IgA1 fragments.

Hiemstra PS(1), Biewenga J, Gorter A, Stuurman ME, Faber A, van Es LA, Daha MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Activation of the complement (C) system by human IgA was studied. Both subclasses
of IgA, IgA1 and IgA2, and secretory IgA were shown to activate C, as determined 
by deposition of C3 on glutaraldehyde-activated microwells coated with IgA. The
activation of the C system occurred in the presence of MgEGTA and not in
D-deficient serum. In addition to C3, deposition of properdin (P) but not of C4
was detected. These results indicate that C activation, as determined by
measuring deposition of C3 and P, occurred by the alternative pathway (AP). The
data further show that the major part of the hinge region, which is deleted in
IgA2 as compared with IgA1 and which forms the major structural difference
between the two subclasses, is not involved in C activation. Reduction and
alkylation destroyed the ability of IgA to activate C, as has also been
demonstrated for IgG. In order to define the C activating region of the IgA
molecule, several fragments of IgA1 were tested. The four-chain molecules F(ab')2
and F(abc)2 were shown to activate the AP. No activation was observed with the
two-chain fragments Fab and Fc. The Fc fragment of IgA also did not activate the 
CP, as does the Fc fragment of IgG. This indicates that activation of the AP of C
by IgA is dependent on the presence of the F(ab')2 fragment.IN CONCLUSION: human 
IgA does activate C by the AP. This activation requires an intact F(ab')2
fragment.

PMID: 3173354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Unfallchirurgie. 1988 Jun;14(3):139-47.

[Clinical problems in fracture of the scaphoid bone].

[Article in German]

Roesgen M(1), Hierholzer G.

Author information: 
(1)Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik Duisburg-Buchholz.

The following specific characteristics of injury cause the problems that occur in
scaphoid bone fractures: 1. Mechanisms of accident: There are only a few typical 
circumstances that cause the injury: as there are false winding of a shrankshaft 
handle or a fall on the extended hand. In all the other cases the accident is
neither realized by the injured person himself or by the physician. As a
consequence the possibility of injury of the scaphoid bone is not taken into
consideration. 2.SYMPTOMS: In a stable fracture the symptoms do not appear
directly but may be clearly delayed or they may disappear very quickly after a
short period of intensity, so that the accident is no longer taken any notice of.
3. Radiodiagnostics: Because of the anatomic position of the scaphoid bone any
X-raying from a lateral view is difficult because the scaphoid is covered by
other carpal bones. In case of an undisplaced fracture you often only see very
fine fracture lines, which are only to be seen from a direct orthograde view. It 
is necessary to X-ray the carpus in different positions. 4.
THERAPY: If there is the slightest chance of a scaphoid bone fracture an
intensive therapy must be directly started. An immobilisation for a too short
period may lead to a delayed union and end in a pseudarthrosis. This is also the 
case if you start the therapy too late. Then the fracture line is already filled 
up by fibrous tissue. The latest period of time to begin a conservative treatment
is six to eight weeks after the day of the accident.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 3043859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Z Kardiol. 1988 Jun;77(6):337-45.

[Percutaneous angioplasty of the stenotic aortic valve: results, hemodynamic
effects and complications].

[Article in German]

Pop T(1), Erbel R, Henrichs KJ, Todt N, Bednarczyk J, Meyer J.

Author information: 
(1)II. Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

In 24 patients with aortic stenosis (13 men and 11 women, aged 47 to 80 years;
mean age 67 years) a percutaneous angioplasty of the aortic valve was performed. 
The NYHA functional class improved in 20 patients. There was also a significant
(p less than 0.01) decrease of the mean aortic gradient from 75.1 +/- 21.8 mm Hg 
to 45.3 +/- 11.7 mm Hg as well as an increase of the aortic valve area from 0.61 
+/- 0.12 cm2 to 0.96 +/- 0.3 cm2. The end diastolic volume index decreased from
121.3 +/- 37.4 ml/m2 to 99.6 +/- 24.8 ml/m2 to the end diastolic volume index
from 49.1 +/- 26.6 ml/m2 to 34.6 +/- 13.4 ml/m2 (both significant: p less than
0.01). The ejection fraction increased from 61.3 +/- 11.8% to 65.8 +/- 7.8% (p
less than 0.05). Four patients presented a transient left bundle branch block.
The corrected QT interval increased significantly (p less than 0.01) from 388.9
+/- 29 ms to 401.4 +/- 42.6 ms. Complications occurred in eight patients, being
severe in three of them (one death from intractable internal hemorrhage, two
cases of right sided hemiparesis).CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous aortic valve
angioplasty represents an alternative to the surgical procedure. In our patients 
there was not only an increase in the aortic valve area, but also an improvement 
in the ejection fraction. Nevertheless, unforeseeable complications may occur
which obscure the results. In the future, widened experience and improved
technique will reduce complications.

PMID: 2975093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):703-6.

Danazol for the treatment of refractory autoimmune thrombocytopenia in systemic
lupus erythematosus.

West SG(1), Johnson SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Fitzsimons Army Medical Center, Aurora, Colorado.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to determine the efficacy of danazol therapy in patients with
systemic lupus erythematosus with severe autoimmune thrombocytopenia refractory
to other therapies.
DESIGN: noncontrolled clinical trial, with a minimum of 8 weeks of therapy, the
maximum determined by clinical response.
SETTING: referral-based rheumatology clinic at an army medical center.
PATIENTS: sequential sample of six patients with systemic lupus erythematosus
with severe autoimmune thrombocytopenia refractory to high-dose glucocorticoids. 
Four patients also failed splenectomy, or cytotoxic drugs, or both.
INTERVENTIONS: danazol, 200 mg four times per day, was added to the previous
therapeutic regimen for at least 2 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: all six patients had normal platelet counts within
6 weeks of starting danazol treatment. After resolution of thrombocytopenia for
at least 1 month, immunosuppressive medications were tapered; one patient had a
relapse. During an average follow-up of 12 months, the danazol dose was lowered
in the five remaining patients but could not be discontinued without recurrence
of thrombocytopenia. During danazol therapy, platelet-bound IgG antibodies and
circulating immune complexes did not decrease significantly. Danazol was well
tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: danazol appears to be a useful adjunctive treatment for refractory
autoimmune thrombocytopenia associated with systemic lupus erythematosus.

PMID: 3358571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):680-6.

Liver disease associated with occupational exposure to the solvent
dimethylformamide.

Redlich CA(1), Beckett WS, Sparer J, Barwick KW, Riely CA, Miller H, Sigal SL,
Shalat SL, Cullen MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to characterize an outbreak of liver disease among workers in a 
fabric coating factory; and to determine the outbreak's cause and natural history
and strategies for clinical recognition, treatment, and prevention.
DESIGN: clinical-epidemiological investigation.
SETTING: academic medical center, Occupational Medicine Clinic, and worksite.
PATIENTS: fifty-eight of sixty-six workers participated in the study. All had
standard liver function tests at least once. Forty-six workers completed a
questionnaire; 27 had more extensive clinical evaluation for recognized liver
abnormalities.
RESULTS: a plant-wide outbreak of liver disease was recognized after a new
employee presented with signs and symptoms of hepatitis. Evaluation of the
worksite showed that dimethylformamide, a widely used industrial solvent and
known hepatotoxin, was being used to coat fabric in poorly ventilated areas
without appropriate skin protection. No other major hepatotoxic exposure was
identified. Overall, 36 of 58 (62%) workers tested had elevations of either
aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. Enzyme
abnormalities occurred almost exclusively in production workers (35 of 46 were
abnormal), whereas only 1 of 12 nonproduction workers showed any elevations in
enzyme levels (P less than 0.0001). Serologic tests excluded known infectious
causes of hepatitis in all but 2 workers and changes characteristic of toxic
liver injury were confirmed by histologic examinations of biopsy specimens from 4
workers. The ratio of AST to ALT levels was one or less in all but 1 worker.
After modification of work practices and removal of workers most severely
affected from exposure, improvement in liver enzyme abnormalities and symptoms in
most patients were seen, although some patients showed persistent elevations of
enzyme levels.
CONCLUSIONS: an outbreak of toxic liver disease has been associated with exposure
to dimethylformamide in the workplace. The diagnosis of toxic liver disease was
established by the clinical histories, negative viral serologies, an enzyme
pattern of ALT levels being greater than AST levels, epidemiologic data on
coworkers, and liver biopsy specimens. The high prevalence of unsuspected liver
enzyme abnormalities in these workers suggests that occupational liver disease
may occur more frequently than is generally recognized.

PMID: 3358569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):675-9.

Treatment of condyloma acuminatum with three different interferons administered
intralesionally. A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Reichman RC(1), Oakes D, Bonnez W, Greisberger C, Tyring S, Miller L, Whitley R, 
Carveth H, Weidner M, Krueger G, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry,
New York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and toxicity of intralesionally
administered interferons in the treatment of condyloma acuminatum.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study.
SETTING: Outpatient clinics at university medical centers.
PATIENTS: Seventy-nine patients with biopsy-proved condyloma acuminatum that was 
refractory to conventional therapy were enrolled in the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Alpha-2b, alpha-nl-, and beta-interferons were used. One wart on
each patients was injected three times per week for 4 weeks with either 1 x 10(6)
units of interferon or placebo.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Forty-seven percent of warts injected with
interferon resolved completely, compared with 22% of placebo-injected warts (P = 
0.009). In addition, more recipients of interferon had a complete resolution of
uninjected lesions. No differences in rates of response were noted among the
different interferon groups. Approximately one third of interferon-injected warts
recurred, compared with none of four placebo-injected warts. Intralesionally
administered interferon was nontoxic and well tolerated, although transient pain 
on injection was observed frequently.
CONCLUSIONS: Intralesional administration of each of these three interferons
appears to be useful in treating condyloma acuminatum. However, the frequent
recurrence of disease and the failure of many lesions to resolve indicate that
different regimens, such as longer courses of therapy or different routes of
administration, should be evaluated to maximize beneficial effects of interferon 
for treating this common sexually transmitted disease.

PMID: 3358568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):687-93.

Proliferative response of bronchoalveolar lymphocytes to beryllium. A test for
chronic beryllium disease.

Rossman MD(1), Kern JA, Elias JA, Cullen MR, Epstein PE, Preuss OP, Markham TN,
Daniele RP.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular-Pulmonary Division, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1989 Apr 15;110(8):672.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to ascertain whether measuring the proliferative response of
bronchoalveolar lymphocytes to beryllium salts is useful for diagnosing chronic
beryllium disease.
DESIGN: prospective case series compared to normal volunteers and patients with
sarcoidosis.
SETTING: university referral center.
PATIENTS: twenty-three consecutive beryllium workers were evaluated. Fourteen had
chronic beryllium disease diagnosed on the basis of histologic evidence of a
progressive pulmonary granulomatosis. Four had biopsy evidence of non-beryllium
disease. Three had probable chronic beryllium disease but did not have lung
biopsies. Two did not have biopsies and had basilar fibrosis on chest
roentgenogram suggestive of non-beryllium lung disease. These patients were
compared with 6 normal volunteers and 16 patients with sarcoidosis.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: bronchoalveolar lavage was done and the
proliferative response of the lung cells to two beryllium salts was tested. A
positive proliferative test was defined as a stimulation index of more than five 
on two determinations. The sensitivity of this test was 100% in the 14 patients
with definite chronic beryllium disease. The specificity of the test was also
100% among the normal volunteers and the 16 patients with sarcoidosis. The test
was positive in none of the four patients with biopsy evidence of non-beryllium
disease, none out of two patients with lower lobe fibrosis suggestive of
non-beryllium disease, and all of three patients with probable chronic beryllium 
lung disease.
CONCLUSIONS: the proliferative response of bronchoalveolar lymphocytes to
beryllium appears to be a useful test for chronic beryllium disease.

PMID: 3282464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):669-74.

Gallium nitrate for acute treatment of cancer-related hypercalcemia. A
randomized, double-blind comparison to calcitonin.

Warrell RP Jr(1), Israel R, Frisone M, Snyder T, Gaynor JJ, Bockman RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether gallium nitrate therapy is superior to
maximally approved doses of calcitonin for acute control of cancer-related
hypercalcemia.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind comparison of active treatments.
SETTING: Comprehensive cancer center.
PATIENTS: One hundred ninety-eight consecutive hypercalcemic events in 164
patients screened for entry.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: hospitalization and intravenous hydration for at least 2
days; persistent elevated serum calcium levels of 2.99 mmol/L or greater
(adjusted for serum albumin); serum creatinine levels of 221 mumol/L or less; no 
cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation, or mithramycin within the preceding 7 days or 
during study; no concurrent use of aminoglycoside antibiotics; life expectancy
greater than 4 weeks; lymphoma and parathyroid carcinoma excluded. Patients were 
stratified by histologic type of tumor (epidermoid or nonepidermoid). Fifty
patients were randomized and treated.
INTERVENTIONS: Gallium nitrate 200 mg/m2 body surface area for 5 days by
continuous intravenous infusion, or salmon calcitonin 8 IU/kg body weight every 6
hours for 5 days by intramuscular injection. Patients randomized to receive
gallium nitrate received sham injections of saline to simulate calcitonin;
patients randomized to receive calcitonin received 1000 mL 5%-dextrose solution
to simulate gallium nitrate.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients were evaluable. Eighteen of
twenty-four patients who received gallium nitrate achieved normocalcemia compared
with 8 of 26 patients who received calcitonin for an observed difference of 44%
(95% confidence interval, 19% to 69%; P = 0.002). Median duration of
normocalcemia before other cytotoxic or hypocalcemic therapy was 6 days for
patients treated with gallium nitrate compared with 1 day for patients treated
with calcitonin (P less than 0.001). Median duration of normocalcemia regardless 
of intercurrent treatment and without adjustment for serum albumin was 11+ days
for patients treated with gallium nitrate and 2 days for patients treated with
calcitonin (P less than 0.01). Mean daily fluid intake and mean daily dose of
furosemide were similar in both treatment groups. No additional benefit was seen 
in 9 patients randomized to receive calcitonin who incidentally received
corticosteroids.
CONCLUSIONS: Gallium nitrate therapy is highly effective and superior to
maximally approved doses of calcitonin for acute control of cancer-related
hypercalcemia.

PMID: 3282463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Br J Pharmacol. 1988 May;94(1):228-34.

Prejunctional muscarinic (M1)-receptor interactions on guinea-pig ileum: lack of 
effect of cisapride.

Schuurkes JA(1), Van Bergen PJ, Van Nueten JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Janssen Research Foundation, Beerse, Belgium.

1. Cisapride stimulates gastrointestinal motility, probably by enhancing the
release of acetylcholine from myenteric nerve endings. Such an effect could be
mediated via presynaptic muscarinic (M1)-receptors. Our aim was to determine
whether cisapride could antagonize the inhibitory effects of a M1-agonist,
McN-A-343 or mimic the effects of a M1-antagonist, pirenzepine. 2. Longitudinal
segments were suspended in Krebs solution (95% O2, 5% CO2, 37.5 degrees C) for
isometric tension recording (preload 1 g) during electrical transmural
stimulation (0.1 Hz, 1 ms, sub- or supramaximal current). 3. McN-A-343 (2.0 x
10(-6) M) reduced the contractile response to supramaximal stimulation (EC50 =
1.6 x 10(-6) M), but had no effect on the contractions induced by exogenous
acetylcholine. 4. The inhibitory effect of McN-A-343 on the contractile response 
to electrical stimulation could be reversed by pirenzepine (EC50 = 1.6 x 10(-8)
M) but not by atropine. At these concentrations pirenzepine itself did not modify
the contractile response to electrical stimulation. However, at 50 times higher
concentrations pirenzepine inhibited the response to electrical stimulation as
well as the response to exogenous acetylcholine (EC50 = 8.5 x 10(-7) M). 5.
Cisapride enhanced the contractile response to submaximal electrical stimulation 
by 49 +/- 10%. This stimulating effect of cisapride was not affected by the
presence of pirenzepine but was reduced in the presence of McN-A-343 (22 +/- 7%).
6.IN CONCLUSION: the effects of McN-A-343 and pirenzepine on the electrically
stimulated guinea-pig ileum are compatible with an interaction on presynaptic
muscarinic-(M1)-receptors. Cisapride enhances the twitch amplitude via mechanisms
independent of such M1-receptor interactions.

PMCID: PMC1853913
PMID: 2456809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1988 May;91(2):212-6.

Echocardiographic abnormalities in acromegalic patients.

Lacka K(1), Piszczek I, Kosowicz J, Gembicki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Medical Academy, Poznań/Poland.

The aim of our study was the evaluation of the cardiac size and left ventricular 
function in 26 patients with acromegaly and 20 control subjects using
echocardiography. The following parameters were evaluated: systolic and diastolic
ventricular dimensions, diastolic posterior wall and interventricular septal
thickness, left ventricle ejection fraction and left ventricular mass, amplitude 
of the posterior left ventricular wall movement, speed of the circular fibres
shortening area of the left ventricular muscle and left ventricular contractility
index.RESULTS: In 91% of patients with acromegaly echocardiographic abnormalities
were found. The most frequent were: concentric thickening of the left ventricular
posterior wall in 38%, interventricular septal thickening in 54% and increased
left ventricular mass in 84.6% of acromegalic patients. Left ventricular
dimensions were increased: diastolic in 65.4% and systolic in 92% of patients. In
46% of cases the ejection fraction was decreased. There was no correlation
between extent of the left ventricular hypertrophy and other echocardiographic
abnormalities, serum growth hormone concentration, choice of therapy and duration
of the disease.

PMID: 2970393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1988 May;245(2):682-6.

Clonidine enhances the release of endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid through
alpha-2 and alpha-1 presynaptic adrenoceptors differentially located in rat
cerebral cortex subregions.

Pittaluga A(1), Raiteri M.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Farmacologia e Farmacognosia, Università di Genova, Italy.

Clonidine (0.001-1 microM) increased the basal release of endogenous
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in superfused synaptosomes from whole rat cerebral
cortex. The effects of 0.1 to 1 microM clonidine were only in part sensitive to
the alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine; a complete antagonism by yohimbine
could be seen only with 0.001 microM clonidine. The release of GABA induced by
0.1 to 1 microM clonidine was increasingly sensitive to the alpha-1 adrenoceptor 
antagonist prazosin. At all the concentrations tested clonidine was antagonized
fully by a mixture yohimbine-prazosin (1 microM). The release of GABA was
increased by phenylephrine in a concentration-dependent (0.01-1 microM) manner.
At 1 microM phenylephrine was antagonized fully by 1 microM prazosin. When
synaptosomes prepared from frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortex were 
exposed to clonidine (0.005 microM) or to phenylephrine (0.1 microM), the release
of GABA was found to be region specific. Clonidine-induced GABA release could not
be seen in temporal and occipital cortex but it was pronounced in parietal and
frontal cortex. The effect of phenylephrine did not parallel that of clonidine:
for instance, GABA release was most sensitive to phenylephrine in the occipital
cortex where clonidine was ineffective. The opposite occurred in parietal cortex 
synaptosomes, where phenylephrine was much less effective than clonidine.IN
CONCLUSION: 1) clonidine stimulates the release of GABA in rat cerebral cortex
synaptosomes; 2) the effect is likely to occur by activation of alpha-1 and
alpha-2 adrenoceptors possibly situated on GABAergic nerve endings; and 3) a
differential distribution of alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptors regulating GABA
release exists within the cortical subregions.

PMID: 2835479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. J Surg Res. 1988 May;44(5):514-21.

Hypothermia prevents increased capillary permeability following
ischemia-reperfusion injury.

Jurkovich GJ(1), Pitt RM, Curreri PW, Granger DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of South Alabama, Mobile 36609.

Severely injured trauma victims are frequently hypothermic. It is unclear,
however, whether hypothermia itself is a detrimental or protective physiologic
response to injury. One of the major consequences of fluid resuscitation
following ischemic injury is edema formation, characterized by
ischemia-reperfusion injury models. The purpose of this study was to examine the 
effect of regional hypothermia on a feline intestinal model of
ischemia-reperfusion injury. An autoperfused segment of cat ileum was isolated
and arterial, venous, and lymphatic vessels were cannulated. Lymph flow (Q1),
lymph (C1), and plasma (Cp) protein concentrations and segmental blood flow (Qb) 
were measured. Permeability changes were characterized by the minimal C1/Cp ratio
obtained by elevating venous outflow pressure. Animals were divided into the
following groups: Group I: 1 hr of intestinal ischemia (30 mm Hg) with
autoreperfusion; Group II: 1 hr of intestinal hypothermia (28 degrees C) with
subsequent rewarming; Group III: 1 hr of combined ischemia and hypothermia. Group
III animals were either kept hypothermic (IIIA) or rewarmed (IIIB) during
autoreperfusion. Minimal C1/Cp ratios (mean +/- SEM) were as follows:CONTROL:
0.15 +/- 0.02; Group I*: 0.32 +/- 0.03; Group II: 0.15 +/- 0.01; Group IIIA: 0.18
+/- 0.02; Group IIIB*: 0.42 +/- 0.02; (* = P less than 0.01 vs control).
Reperfusion flow rates were no different between Group IIIA and Group IIIB
animals. Ischemia-reperfusion, but not hypothermia alone, caused a marked
increase in intestinal capillary permeability. Permeability increased after
combined ischemia and hypothermia only if reperfusion was accompanied by
rewarming. Hypothermic reperfusion protected against the increased permeability
following ischemia.

PMID: 3374115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Respir Care. 1988 May;33(5):348-53.

Multicompetency needs in respiratory care: results of a survey of respiratory
therapy alumni and hospital administrators.

Beachey W.

I sought to determine (1) respiratory therapists' perceptions of their need for
competencies normally associated with other professions, (2) hospital
administrators' perceptions of functional combinations of health professions, and
(3) the relationship of both sets of these perceptions to the hospital bed size
of the employing hospital.METHOD: I mailed pretested and validated survey
instruments to all 1981-1984 graduates of The Wichita State University therapist 
program and a second, similar instrument to all hospital administrators in the
state of Kansas.
RESULTS: Both groups of respondents perceived a need for therapists to be
competent in skills normally associated with other professions. This was true
regardless of the size of the hospital concerned. Chi-square analysis revealed no
significant difference between the responses of those completing and returning
the written survey and the responses of a random sample of nonrespondents to the 
written survey who were contacted by telephone. Administrators most frequently
identified as desirable nursing and physical therapy combinations with
respiratory therapy. Respiratory therapists most frequently identified nursing,
emergency medical technology, and medical technology as the professions in which 
they need additional competence.
CONCLUSIONS: It would seem prudent for respiratory therapy educators to
collaborate with other health care educators to identify a common professional
core and to develop curricula that accommodate multicompetency needs.

PMID: 10315754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Transplantation. 1988 May;45(5):899-902.

Urinary calculi in renal transplant recipients.

Cho DK(1), Zackson DA, Cheigh J, Stubenbord WT, Stenzel KH.

Author information: 
(1)Rogosin Kidney Center, New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical College, NY
10021.

Urinary calculi are an uncommon complication in renal transplant recipients.
During a 15-year period, in 544 cases of kidney transplantation with a
functioning allograft for more than 3 months, and a long-term follow-up, we have 
observed 9 cases (1.7%) of urinary calculi. Calculi occurred in 6 male and 3
female patients, 6 patients were recipients of living related and 3 of cadaveric 
kidneys. Calculi were diagnosed as early as 3 months and as late as 3.5 years
after transplantation, but most were detected within the first year. The location
of the calculi was the bladder in 4 cases, the transplant in 3, and indeterminant
in 2. Crystallographic analysis of retrieved stones revealed calcium oxalate
and/or phosphate in 4 cases, triple phosphate in 2, and uric acid in 1. All
patients had one or more stone-predisposing factors, such as obstructive uropathy
and recurrent urinary tract infection (4 cases), hyperoxaluria (3), or
hypercalciuria (2). During long-term follow-up (mean 60 months), only one patient
lost the renal graft, 14.5 years after transplantation, primarily from causes
unrelated to urinary calculi. One instance of stone recurrence was noted.IN
CONCLUSION: (1) urinary calculi after renal transplantation are relatively
uncommon; (2) predisposing factors and crystallographic composition of the
calculi are identical in type, but not frequency, to those of nontransplant
patients; and (3) with proper medical and surgical management, post-transplant
urolithiasis does not appear to affect graft prognosis.

PMID: 3285534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Am J Gastroenterol. 1988 Apr;83(4):398-403.

Portal hemodynamic responses after oral intake of glucose in patients with
cirrhosis.

Tsunoda T(1), Ohnishi K, Tanaka H.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Medicine, Chiba University School of Medicine, Japan.

Changes of portal, superior mesenteric, and splenic venous flows, and
portohepatic gradient (portal vein pressure minus free hepatic vein pressure)
after a meal were studied in patients with cirrhosis using the duplex ultrasonic 
Doppler flowmeter, and portal and hepatic vein catheterizations after ingestion
of 227 ml of 33% glucose solution (300 kcal). As a control, changes of portal
venous flow and portohepatic gradient after drinking 227 ml of water, were
studied. Portal and superior mesenteric venous flows increased significantly at
30 min after glucose intake, and they returned gradually to the basal values,
whereas no significant postprandial change occurred in splenic venous flow. The
sum of superior mesenteric and splenic venous flows was greater than the
estimated portal venous flow before glucose intake, and the difference widened
during post-prandial mesenteric hyperemia, indicating an increase of blood flow
into the portal-systemic shunts. After glucose intake, portohepatic gradient
elevated immediately, in parallel with an increase of portal venous flow, and
these changes persisted for the 30 min studied; however, no significant change
occurred in these parameters after drinking water.IN CONCLUSION: 1) In patients
with cirrhosis, hyperemia occurs in the intestine but not in the spleen after
glucose intake, and 2) postprandial mesenteric hyperemia causes an increase of
portal venous inflow, portal-systemic collateral flow, portal venous flow, and an
elevation of portohepatic gradient.

PMID: 3279759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Anaesthesist. 1988 Apr;37(4):238-45.

[Nalbuphine in comparison with piritramid and placebo in postoperative pain
therapy following intubation anesthesia with halothane. Side effects and
effectiveness].

[Article in German]

Schäffer J(1), Piepenbrock S, Niekrens E, Panning B.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Anaesthesiologie II, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

The aim of the study was a comparison of the side-effects and efficacy of
nalbuphine, piritramide, and placebo in patients during recovery from halothane
anesthesia.METHODS: Neurosurgical (vertebral surgery) and otolaryngological
patients (surgery of face and neck) were operated under halothane anesthesia.
Postoperatively 20 patients received 20 mg nalbuphine, 21 patients 15 mg
piritramide, and 19 patients 0.9% NaCl for pain therapy in a randomized and
double-blind manner. Respiratory function was monitored by blood gas analysis,
hemodynamic function by noninvasive measurements. The analgetic and sedative
effects were estimated by the patients (visual analog scale) and the investigator
(4-point scale). If the treatment was ineffective, the study was interrupted and 
a known analgesic was prescribed.
RESULTS: The noninvasively measured hemodynamic parameters were unchanged. On the
other hand, in the nalbuphine group mean arterial pCO2 increased significantly
(max. 55.4 mmHg after 20 min), over the piritramide group (max. 51.2 mmHg before 
treatment) and the placebo group (max. 55.1 mmHg before treatment). Drowsiness,
in 8 patients in each of the treatment groups and 3 patients in the placebo
group, was the most frequent side-effect. After nalbuphine the pain threshold was
significantly higher than after treatment with piritramide and placebo. The study
was interrupted because of inefficacy in no patients from the nalbuphine group, 2
patients from the piritramide group, and 6 patients from the placebo group. There
were no differences in the sedative effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Nalbuphine seems to have better analgesic effects then piritramide. 
Both cause no hemodynamic alterations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3044181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Anaesthesist. 1988 Apr;37(4):268-76.

[Sedative-analgesic medication in intensive care patients needing ventilator
treatment].

[Article in German]

Adams HA(1), Biscoping J, Russ W, Bachmann B, Ratthey K, Hempelmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, Klinikum der
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen.

It was the aim of this study to compare two regimens for sedation and analgesia
during ventilator treatment in intensive care patients. Special regard was given 
to endocrine stress response, neuro-monitoring, hemodynamic parameters and
clinical practicability.METHODS: A total number of 16 patients of an operative
ICU were randomly allocated to the following groups: (1) Fentanyl-group,
approximately 0.2 mg/h fentanyl, 2.5 mg/h midazolam and 2 mg/h pancuronium in
intermittent doses, (2) ketamine-group, about 50 mg/h ketamine and 2.5 mg/h
midazolam by syringe pump, in addition 2 mg/h pancuronium. During a period of 2
days and in intervalls of 6 h, plasma levels of epinephrine and norepinephrine
(by HPLC/ECD), ADH, ACTH and cortisol (by RIA), ketamine (by GC) and
stress-metabolites (glucose, lactate, free glycerol) were determined. Hemodynamic
parameters were investigated in intervalls of 12 h, EEG (Compressed Spectral
Array, CSA) in intervalls of 24 h. In addition, routine laboratory data,
vigilance and adaptation to the respirator were observed.
RESULTS: Plasma levels of adrenaline, noradrenaline, dopamine, ADH, ACTH,
cortisol and stress-metabolites were comparable in both groups. Levels of ADH,
ACTH, cortisol and free glycerol did not leave the normal range. In three
patients, in which epinephrine- or norepinephrine-infusions were necessary to
improve cardiocirculatory stability, this treatment could be finished after
beginning of the ketamine application. In both groups, CSA showed a dominant
delta- und theta-activity according to the clinical aspects of sufficient
sedation and analgesia. Hemodynamic parameters were comparable in both
groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2841885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):557-60.

The risk for systemic embolization associated with percutaneous balloon
valvuloplasty in adults. A prospective comprehensive evaluation.

Davidson CJ(1), Skelton TN, Kisslo KB, Kong Y, Peter RH, Simonton CA, Phillips
HR, Behar VS, Bashore TM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To prospectively investigate the evidence for embolic phenomena 
associated with percutaneous mitral and aortic valvuloplasty.
DESIGN: Prospective, consecutive case series before and after balloon
valvuloplasty.
SETTING: Referral center hospital and cardiac catheterization laboratory.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 32 patients having balloon valvuloplasty for
critical symptomatic stenosis of the mitral or aortic valve. Twenty-six patients 
had aortic stenosis; 6 had mitral stenosis.
INTERVENTION: Computed tomography of the head, funduscopy, and
electrocardiography were done in all patients before and after valvuloplasty.
Cardiac isoenzymes were measured serially in 19 patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Previous cerebral infarction was seen in nine
patients, with three showing a new abnormality after aortic valvuloplasty. In one
of these patients a funduscopic hemorrhage was detected by photography. Total
creatinine kinase and MB fraction were elevated in 1 of 19 patients. Serial
electrocardiograms were unchanged in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of cerebral neurologic events and myocardial injury
are acceptably low after balloon valvuloplasty of calcific aortic and mitral
stenosis. Both episodes of symptomatic cerebral infarction occurred in patients
with apparent bicuspid aortic valvular stenosis, suggesting that calcific
bicuspid aortic stenosis may be associated with more neurologic events after
aortic valvuloplasty.

PMID: 3348563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):530-4.

High serum cortisol levels in exercise-associated amenorrhea.

Ding JH(1), Sheckter CB, Drinkwater BL, Soules MR, Bremner WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether basal cortisol levels are elevated in
exercise-associated amenorrhea.
DESIGN: Survey, with hormone levels measured weekly for 1 month and patients
followed clinically for 6 months.
SETTING: Volunteers were recruited through media advertisements and fliers.
PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-two women were enrolled; 71 (77%) completed the study.
Subjects were grouped by menstrual and activity histories reported by a
self-administered questionnaire. After 6 months, final groups were assigned:
amenorrheic athletes, 19; eumenorrheic athletes, 35; a transition group of
amenorrheic athletes who had resumed menses after entering the study, 7; and
normal cyclic nonathletes, 10.
INTERVENTIONS: Four weekly resting blood samples (0800 to 1000 hours) were
obtained and measured for cortisol, estradiol, progesterone, and prolactin
levels. Lumbar bone mineral density was measured by dual-photon densitometry.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean (+/- SE) cortisol levels were higher in
amenorrheic athletes (585 +/- 33 nmol/L) than in eumenorrheic athletes (411 +/-
14 nmol/L), transition athletes (378 +/- 33 nmol/L), or nonathletic women (397
+/- 30 nmol/L) (P less than 0.01). Of nine women with abnormally high cortisol
levels (greater than 579 nmol/L), eight were amenorrheic athletes, and one was a 
eumenorrheic athlete. Bone mineral density was lower in amenorrheic athletes than
in the other three groups (P less than 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased glucocorticoid levels may be an etiologic factor in
exercise-associated amenorrhea. High cortisol levels could also contribute to
decreased bone density. The failure of amenorrheic athletes with
hypercortisolemia to regain menses within 6 months suggests that they are at risk
for a prolonged acyclic state.

PMID: 3348561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):518-23.

Metastatic renal cancer treated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated
killer cells. A phase II clinical trial.

Fisher RI(1), Coltman CA Jr, Doroshow JH, Rayner AA, Hawkins MJ, Mier JW, Wiernik
P, McMannis JD, Weiss GR, Margolin KA, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, Illinois.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To confirm the antitumor efficacy of treatment with
interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells in patients with metastatic
renal cancer.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, phase II clinical trial.
SETTING: Tertiary care units in university medical centers.
PATIENTS: Consecutive trial of 35 patients with metastatic or unresectable renal 
cell cancer who have bidimensionally measurable disease, performance status 0 or 
1, and normal function of all vital organs. Thirty-two patients completed
interleukin-2 priming and received at least one lymphokine-activated killer cell 
infusion. Three patients were removed from the study and did not receive infusion
of cells secondary to rapid tumor progression or toxicity.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients initially received recombinant interleukin-2, 100,000
units/kg body weight every 8 hours, on days 1 to 5 in a priming phase to
stimulate lymphokine-activated killer cell precursors and effector activity in
vivo. Leukapheresis was done on days 8 to 12 and lymphocytes were cultured in
vitro with interleukin-2 for 3 to 4 days to amplify lymphokine-activated killer
cell activity. Finally, interleukin-2, 100,000 units/kg every 8 hours, was
infused with cultured cells on days 12 to 16. All doses of interleukin-2 and
lymphokine-activated killer cells were administered in intensive care units.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The mean number of doses of interleukin-2
administered during the priming phase was 12.9 +/- 0.4; the mean number of
lymphokine-activated killer cells reinfused was 7.0 +/- 0.6 X 10(10); and the
mean number of interleukin-2 doses administered during the last phase was 10.2
+/- 0.6. The overall objective response rate was 16%; two patients had complete
responses and three patients had partial responses with greater than 50%
reduction of all measurable tumor. The complete responders remain disease-free at
12 and 9 months. Two partial responders have not had tumor regrowth at 16 and 15 
months. The third partial responder relapsed at 4 months. Toxicity was severe but
generally of short duration and manageable. There were no treatment-related
deaths. Hypotension, weight gain, anemia, and elevations of serum creatinine
levels and liver enzymes were common. Two patients required intubation; one
patient had a myocardial infarction.
CONCLUSIONS: This phase II study confirms the antitumor activity of interleukin-2
and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy in patients with metastatic or
unresectable renal cell cancer. Response rates, especially complete remission
rates, are comparable or better than rates achieved with other forms of therapy.

PMID: 3258138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):524-9.

Left ventricular contractility varies directly with blood ionized calcium.

Lang RM(1), Fellner SK, Neumann A, Bushinsky DA, Borow KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, Illinois.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Oct 1;109(7):600.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of variations in blood ionized calcium
(Ca2+) on myocardial contractility independent of changes in loading conditions
and other biochemical variables.
DESIGN: Hemodialysis done in a randomized, double-blind manner with dialysates
differing in calcium concentration only. Left ventricular contractility was
assessed using the load- and heart rate-independent relationship between
end-systolic wall stress (sigma es) and rate-corrected velocity of fiber
shortening (Vcfc).
SETTING: In-hospital dialysis unit and echocardiography laboratory of a
university medical center.
PATIENTS: Seven patients with stable, chronic renal failure maintained on regular
hemodialysis.
INTERVENTIONS: Each patient was hemodialyzed three times within 1 week with
dialysates differing in calcium concentration only. Ultrafiltration was adjusted 
to achieve the same postdialysis weight. Immediately after dialysis,
two-dimensionally targeted M-mode echocardiographic and calibrated carotid pulse 
tracings were recorded over a wide range of left ventricular end-systolic wall
stress values (a measure of left ventricular afterload) generated by either
methoxamine or nitroprusside.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After dialysis, three statistically distinct
levels of Ca2+ were achieved. When Ca2+ was 1.34 +/- 0.03 mmol/L, Vcfc,
calculated at a common level of afterload (sigma es = 50 g/cm2), was 1.01 +/-
0.05 cir/sec; at low Ca2+ (1.02 +/- 0.02 mmol/L), Vcfc fell to 0.89 +/- 0.04
cir/sec (P less than 0.001 compared with medium); at high Ca2+ (1.68 +/- 0.07
mmol/L) Vcfc rose to 1.10 +/- 0.03 circ/sec (P less than 0.001 compared with
medium and low).
CONCLUSION: Variations in Ca2+ are directly correlated with clinically
significant changes in myocardial contractility.

PMID: 3248127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):554-7.

Continuous narcotic infusion with patient-controlled analgesia for chronic cancer
pain in outpatients.

Kerr IG(1), Sone M, Deangelis C, Iscoe N, MacKenzie R, Schueller T.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto-Bayview Regional Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Medical Centre, Ontario,
Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility and safety of outpatient continuous
narcotic infusions with additional bolus capabilities (patient-controlled
analgesia) in patients with cancer pain.
DESIGN: A single arm (non-randomized) series.
SETTING: Outpatient with contact by telephone and through outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: Consecutive series of 18 patients with poorly controlled cancer pain or
significant side effects from regular administration of various narcotics.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients taught and supervised to use portable pump capable of
delivering a continuous narcotic infusion with bolus capabilities.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients had improvement in pain control as
judged by the use of a linear analogue scale. Side effects and safety profile
were highly acceptable. Narcotics used and maximum doses were meperidine, 50
mg/h; morphine, 80 mg/hr; and hydromorphone, 60 mg/hr. Infusion duration ranged
from 7 to 225 days (mean, 54 days).
CONCLUSIONS: Continuous narcotic infusions using a programmable portable pump
with bolus capabilities is a safe and reliable method of delivering narcotics to 
outpatients.

PMID: 2894791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Apr;108(4):513-8.

Advanced seminoma: the role of chemotherapy and adjunctive surgery.

Motzer RJ(1), Bosl GJ, Geller NL, Penenberg D, Yagoda A, Golbey R, Whitmore WF
Jr, Fair WR, Sogani P, Herr H, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of chemotherapy and adjunctive
surgery in managing patients with advanced seminoma.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized prospective clinical trial of chemotherapy in a cohort of
patients with advanced seminoma.
SETTING: Referral cancer hospital.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 62 patients with primary extragonadal, stage IIC 
(greater than 5-cm retroperitoneal adenopathy) and stage III seminoma; 45
patients were previously untreated, 13 had received radiotherapy, and 4 had
previously received radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
INTERVENTION: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy (100 to 120 mg/m2 body surface area
per cycle of treatment); 45 patients received vinblastine, bleomycin, cisplatin, 
dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide; 15, etoposide and cisplatin; and 2, both
regimens.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Fifty-three of the sixty (88%) evaluable patients 
achieved a complete remission, and only 6 patients had relapses. Fifty-three of
the sixty-two patients (85%) remain alive and disease-free. The regimen of
etoposide and cisplatin was equivalent to regimens using more drugs. An elevated 
level of human chorionic gonadotropin at the initiation of treatment was
associated with a worse prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy is effective treatment for patients
with extragonadal, stage IIC, and stage III seminoma and should be considered as 
initial therapy.

PMID: 2450500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Br J Rheumatol. 1988 Apr;27(2):91-3.

The natural history of juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis: a 24-year
retrospective case-control study.

Calin A(1), Elswood J.

Author information: 
(1)Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, Upper Borough Walls, Bath, UK.

One hundred and thirty-five patients with juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis
(JAS: less than 16 years at onset, mean 12.8 years) were compared to 135
adult-onset spondylitics (AAS: greater than 21 years at onset, mean 26.1 years), 
controlled for disease duration (24.5 and 23.5 years, respectively), to assess
the outcome of juvenile-onset disease. Review was by postal questionnaire and
health-assessment measures. The sex distribution was similar: 73% and 74% males, 
respectively. All parameters showed comparable outcome with the exception of the 
numbers in full-time employment (JAS 74%, AAS 56%; p less than 0.01) and total
hip replacements (JAS 17%, AAS 4%; p less than 0.01).IN CONCLUSION: (a) the
premature hip is particularly at risk in ankylosing spondylitis; (b) there are
few differences between the outcome of JAS and AAS; (c) overall, JAS patients do 
well in adulthood.

PMID: 3365541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1988 Apr;28(4):409-14.

The value of thyroid volume measured by ultrasonography in the diagnosis of
goitre.

Berghout A(1), Wiersinga WM, Smits NJ, Touber JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (Division of Endocrinology), University of Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Thyroid volume was measured by ultrasonography in 80 euthyroid patients with
sporadic nontoxic goitre and in 50 healthy adults, all residing in non-iodine
deficient areas. All patients were referred because of complaints of goitre and
had been diagnosed as cases of goitre by inspection and palpation. The thyroid
volume in 15 patients with goitre (19%) was within the normal reference range
(4.9-19.1 ml). Fourteen of the 15 patients had thyroid nodules larger (mean
diameter 2.9 +/- 1.1 cm) than those detected in nine of the healthy adults (mean 
diameter 0.8 +/- 0.6 cm; P less than 0.001). Thyroid size as estimated by
inspection and palpation (grade OA to III according to Stanbury et al., 1974) was
poorly related to thyroid volume measured by ultrasonography.IN CONCLUSION: (1) a
thyroid volume within the normal reference range does not rule out the presence
of nodular goitre; and (2) application of thyroid volume measurement by
ultrasonography may prevent overestimation of goitre prevalence in
epidemiological surveys.

PMID: 3056637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Clin Physiol. 1988 Apr;8(2):147-53.

The effect of exercise on platelet beta-adrenoceptor function and platelet
aggregation in healthy human volunteers.

Winther K(1), Trap-Jensen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Frederiksberg Hospital, Denmark.

Plasma levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline, platelet cyclic-AMP (cAMP)
content, platelet aggregation, platelet release of beta-thromboglobulin, and
platelet factor 4 and serum content of thromboxane B2(TXB2) and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha
were measured in 12 healthy male volunteers (age 38-72, mean 54.2 years) who were
tested at rest and immediately after five min light cycle exercise. The plasma
levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline increased significantly after exercise (P 
less than 0.01). The platelet cAMP level was not changed by exercise. The
functional capacity of platelet beta-adrenoceptors, determined as cAMP production
after beta-adrenoceptor stimulation in vitro, decreased highly significantly
after exercise in all 12 volunteers (P less than 0.01). No alteration was
observed in platelet aggregation induced by adrenaline or in platelet release of 
beta-thromboglobulin or platelet factor 4. No change was observed in the serum
levels of TXB2 and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha.IN CONCLUSION: light cycle exercise results 
in a decreased functional capacity of platelet beta-adrenoceptors, but has no
effect on platelet aggregation or platelet release. This might indicate a
concomitant and equal decreased functional capacity of platelet
alpha-adrenoceptors.

PMID: 2834134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Diabetes Res. 1988 Apr;7(4):185-8.

Abnormalities of glucose metabolism induced by liver cirrhosis and glycosylated
hemoglobin levels in chronic liver disease.

Cacciatore L(1), Cozzolino G, Giardina MG, De Marco F, Sacca L, Esposito P,
Francica G, Lonardo A, Matarazzo M, Varriale A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Internal Medicine, University of Naples, 2nd School of Medicine,
Italy.

The prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and diabetes mellitus (DM)
such as defined by National Diabetes Data Group criteria, and glycosylated
hemoglobin levels were assessed in a series of consecutive patients who had
chronic active hepatitis (CAH) or cirrhosis in the absence of any known
diabetogenic risk factors and who had normal fasting glycemic levels. Based on
oral glucose tolerance test, the prevalence of IGT (15%) and DM (27%) in
cirrhosis was significantly higher (p less than 0.005) than that observed in CAH 
(0%) and controls (0%). In contrast, HbA1 levels were not statistically different
in cirrhotic patients (with normal or altered glucose tolerance) as compared with
CAH and control subjects.IN CONCLUSION: (a) HbA1 is an unsatisfactory test in the
diagnosis of altered glucose tolerance in patients with cirrhosis, and (b)
Cirrhosis (but not CAH) represents itself a risk factor for the development of
glucose metabolism alterations. Therefore, routine oral glucose tolerance testing
is warranted in these patients.

PMID: 3402168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Eur Heart J. 1988 Apr;9 Suppl F:45-54.

Haemodynamic implications of exercise-induced myocardial ischaemia in patients
with recent inferior myocardial infarction.

De Vito F(1), Giordano A, Giannuzzi P, Tavazzi L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, 'Clinica del Lavoro Foundation', Veruno, Novara, Italy.

Two hundred and forty patients with recent inferior myocardial infarction were
studied by a symptom-limited ergometric test with haemodynamic monitoring (triple
lumen tip-thermistor Swan-Ganz catheter) in order to investigate and quantify the
haemodynamic effects of exercise-induced myocardial ischaemia in post-infarct
patients and to assess whether the ST-segment changes give any indication of the 
degree of ventricular impairment. One hundred and thirteen patients showed no
ST-segment changes during excercise; ST-segment elevation in leads with abnormal 
Q wave occurred in 14 patients, ST-segment depression was recorded in 88
subjects, and both ST-segment elevation and depression were found in 27 patients.
In subjects with no ST-segment shift, as well as in those with exercise-induced
ST-segment elevation, the resting and exertional haemodynamic patterns were
normal or nearly normal. In subjects showing ST-segment depression or both
ST-segment elevation and depression during exercise the mean pulmonary wedge
pressure was abnormally elevated (at peak exercise 25 +/- 8 and 24 +/- 7 mm Hg,
respectively). However, 31% of these showed a normal haemodynamic pattern either 
at rest or during exercise. The number of leads with ST-segment depression and
the sum of ST-segment depressions in standard ECG does not reliably indicate the 
degree of ischaemia-dependent left ventricular impairment. In contrast, in
patients grouped on the basis of time of ST depression appearance, the lower the 
ischaemic threshold the more severe was the left ventricular impairment. Finally,
to assess the relative role of both scar and ischaemia in producing left
ventricular dysfunction, the haemodynamic patterns of patients with and without
exercise-induced ST-segment depression were compared in subsets with similar
echocardiographic wall asynergy extent (inferior, infero-apical,
infero-septo-apical). Among patients with small or medium-sized scar, the
exertional left ventricular filling pressure was normal in patients with no
ST-segment depression and abnormally elevated in those with ST-segment
depression. In patients with large infarct, the exercise pulmonary wedge pressure
was similarly elevated in both the ischaemic and non-ischaemic group, but in the 
latter cardiac output increase during exercise was limited.IN CONCLUSION: in
patients with recent inferior myocardial infarction exercise-induced ST-segment
depression is a marker of left ventricular impairment when the ischaemic
threshold is low. The impairment consists of an abnormal elevation of left
ventricular filling pressure in all subjects, associated with a reduced increase 
in cardiac output in patients with large infarct.

PMID: 3391183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. J Clin Pharmacol. 1988 Apr;28(4):306-11.

Clinical pharmacokinetics of controlled-release disopyramide in patients with
cardiac arrhythmias.

Capparelli EV(1), DiPersio DM, Zhao H, Kluger J, Chow MS.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Information Center, Hartford Hospital, CT 06115.

The pharmacokinetics of the controlled-release preparation of disopyramide
phosphate (Norpace CR, Searle Laboratories, Chicago, IL) were studied in ten
patients with cardiac arrhythmias. Multiple-serum disopyramide concentrations
were obtained after a 300-mg oral dose. Each patient then received chronic oral
therapy with the controlled-release preparation (400 to 1000 mg/day) on an
every-12-hour schedule. At steady state, disopyramide trough concentrations were 
obtained. Serum disopyramide concentrations were determined by high performance
liquid chromatography. The regimen was well tolerated by all patients. The mean
(+/- SD) time to maximum concentration, maximum concentration, and concentrations
11 and 24 hours after the initial dose were 5.5 +/- 1.3 hours and 2.8 +/- 0.8,
2.0 +/- 0.9, and 1.2 +/- 0.5 micrograms/mL, respectively. A low Cmax to trough
concentration ratio of 1.35 +/- 0.26 was observed after the initial dose. Linear 
regression analysis of the serum disopyramide concentrations 11 hours after
initial dose (trough) versus trough concentrations at steady state (dose
adjusted) showed a strong correlation (r = 0.87, intercept = 0.03, and slope =
1.9). Regression analysis also showed a strong relationship between the area
under the curve (AUC) from time 0 to 11 hours after the initial dose and the
trough at steady state (r = 0.86).CONCLUSIONS: The controlled-release preparation
of disopyramide, when administered every 12 hours in patients with cardiac
arrhythmias, should produce low peaks to trough fluctuations. Because
disopyramide concentrations after the initial dose correlate well with trough
concentrations at steady state, these concentrations may provide a simple and
convenient method for prospective monitoring of disopyramide therapy in patients 
receiving the controlled-release preparation.

PMID: 3392228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. J Lab Clin Med. 1988 Apr;111(4):430-40.

Human cell line for study of damage to gastric epithelial cells in vitro.

Romano M(1), Razandi M, Sekhon S, Krause WJ, Ivey KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Administration Medical Center Long Beach, CA
90822.

We evaluated whether monolayers from a well-differentiated human gastric
epithelial cell line (MKN 28) are suitable for studying the effect of drugs on
gastric mucosa. MKN 28 monolayers and monolayers of human gastric epithelial
cells from surgical specimens were studied morphologically and functionally. The 
protective effect of acetaminophen against taurocholate-induced damage was
evaluated as was its effect on prostaglandin production. Both types of cultures
showed similar morphologic and histochemical characteristics. Indomethacin
inhibited and arachidonic acid stimulated prostaglandin production by both types 
of monolayers similarly. Both monolayers responded similarly to drug-induced
damage. Acetaminophen decreased taurocholate-induced damage by 33% and 40% in MKN
28 cells and in primary human gastric cell culture, respectively. Indomethacin
did not prevent acetaminophen protection nor did the amount of prostaglandin
produced by cells increase after incubation with acetaminophen.IN CONCLUSION: (1)
in the MKN 28 cell line model acetaminophen protected against
taurocholate-induced damage; the percentage of protection was similar to that in 
primary cultures of human gastric epithelial cells; (2) acetaminophen protection 
in both models was not related to increased prostaglandin production; (3) the MKN
28 cell line is a suitable model to study damage to and protection of gastric
epithelial cells in vitro.

PMID: 3127509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. J Surg Res. 1988 Apr;44(4):417-24.

Neutrophil phagocytosis during endotoxin-induced lung injury.

Griswold J(1), Maier RV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle.

Depressed neutrophil (PMN) phagocytosis in patients with ARDS may contribute to
the known increased incidence of pulmonary sepsis. To evaluate changes in
phagocytosis, circulating PMNs from normal rats were compared to circulating and 
alveolar PMNs (obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage, BAL) from rats after 72 hr of 
endotoxin infusion (LPS-Rx)-induced acute lung injury. Since phagocytosis
correlates with adherence, PMN adherence to coverslips and to a standard nylon
wool column was also measured. PMN adherence to nylon wool was 65% for control,
77% for circulating LPS-Rx, and 20% for BAL PMNs. As a measure of phagocytosis
the PMNs were incubated for 30 min with opsonized fluorescent (FITC) tagged
yeast. Total PMN with yeast were 95.4 +/- 2.1% for control; 96.4 +/- 1.8% for
circulating LPS-Rx; and 78.7 +/- 7.8% (P less than 0.05 compared to control) for 
BAL PMNs. Total numbers of yeast particles per 100 PMN are 270 +/- 64 for
control, 300 +/- 42 for circulating LPS-Rx, and 170 +/- 45 (P less than 0.05
compared to control) for BAL PMN.CONCLUSIONS: (1) Intraalveolar (BAL) PMNs have
decreased adherence; (2) nonadherent PMNs have decreased uptake of yeast; (3) BAL
PMNs, overall, have a significantly decreased uptake of yeast; (4) this
depression in BAL PMN phagocytosis may partially explain the known decreased rate
of bacterial clearance in injured lungs and the increased risk of pulmonary
sepsis with adult respiratory distress syndrome.

PMID: 3283455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. No To Shinkei. 1988 Apr;40(4):335-9.

[Partial oculomotor nerve palsy due to midbrain lesion--case report and
discussion on its characteristics].

[Article in Japanese]

Saeki N(1), Iwadate Y, Namba H, Odaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kawatetsu Chiba Hospital, Japan.

A case of partial oculomotor palsy due to midbrain infarction is reported.CASE
PRESENTATION: Fifty-one-year old man noted a sudden onset of double vision. He
transiently presented right hemiparesis, right hemihyposthenia and cerebellar
ataxia. The main symptom was the left oculomotor palsy selectively involving
extraocular muscles (levator and pupil sparing), lasting for more than 6 months. 
The CT scan showed localized and well demarcated low-density areas at the left
tegmentum of midbrain and left anteromedial thalamus, diagnosed as lacunar
infarction due to occlusion of paramedian perforators at the basilar bifurcation.
This midbrain infarct was supposed to be responsible for the partial oculomotor
palsy. Extramedullary compressive and ischemic lesions have been well-known main 
causes of partial oculomotor palsy. This case, however, has emphasized the
importance of recognition of midbrain lesion as a causative location of the
partial oculomotor palsy. While the anatomical elucidation of this infrequent
palsy is not sufficient, a topography of oculomotor nuclear complex in rhesus
monkey proposed by Warwick, is worthwhile to correlate with midbrain oculomotor
palsy in human cases. The pupil and levator sparing oculomotor palsy is most
frequently caused by the laterally localized lesion at the fascicular portion
which extends transversely at the midbrain tegmentum. This is the most likely
lesion in this reported case. It is reported, on the other hand, that the levator
sparing type oculomotor palsy is caused by a paramedian lesion of rostral
midbrain and pupil sparing type by caudal midbrain. These may be explainable by
rostro-caudal extension of the nuclear complex.

PMID: 3401403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Prostaglandins. 1988 Apr;35(4):555-71.

The effects of lipoxygenase inhibitor and peptidoleukotriene antagonist on
myocardial injury in a canine coronary occlusion-reperfusion model.

Toki Y(1), Hieda N, Torii T, Hashimoto H, Ito T, Ogawa K, Satake T.

Author information: 
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

We studied effects of lipoxygenase inhibitor (AA-861) and peptidoleukotriene
antagonist (ONO-1078) on infarct size, polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMNs)
infiltration, gross myocardial hemorrhage and ventricular arrhythmias in canine
coronary occlusion (2 hr)-reperfusion (5 hr) model. Infarct size (IS) and risk
area (RA) were determined by dual staining technique. Thirty minutes before
coronary occlusion dogs were randomly assigned to one of the following three
groups: lipoxygenase inhibitor group (n = 11) receiving AA-861 3 mg/kg i.v.,
peptidoleukotriene antagonist group (n = 11) receiving continuous intravenous
infusion of ONO-1078 1 micrograms/kg/min and vehicle control group (n = 15). Both
AA-861 and ONO-1078 reduced infarct size [AA-861: 21.8 +/- 1.3% of RA (mean +/-
SEM), ONO-1078: 22.5 +/- 4.4% vsCONTROL: 54.0 +/- 6.4%, p less than 0.01 and p
less than 0.01, respectively] and area of gross myocardial hemorrhage (AA-861:
5.1 +/- 2.4% of IS, ONO-1078: 5.2 +/- 2.5% vs
CONTROL: 22.3 +/- 3.9%, p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.01, respectively).
Both drugs also decreased frequency of ventricular premature contractions both
during occlusion and during reperfusion, and that of ventricular tachycardia
during reperfusion. AA-861 inhibited PMNs recruitment into infarcted area.
However, ONO-1078 had no significant influence on degree of PMNs infiltration.
These results suggest that lipoxygenase products, especially peptidoleukotrienes 
(LTC4, D4 and E4) may play important roles in the pathogenesis of myocardial
ischemic and reperfusion injuries.

PMID: 3150113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Tijdschr Kindergeneeskd. 1988 Apr;56(2):67-72.

[Significance of recurrence in children with acute lymphatic leukemia].

[Article in Dutch]

Behrendt H(1), van Leeuwen EF, Schuwirth C, Verkes RJ, Hermans J, van der
Does-van den Berg A, van Wering ER.

Author information: 
(1)Werkgroep Kindertumoren, Emma Kinderziekenhuis, Amsterdam.

Relapse is the main obstacle on the way to cure in children with acute
lymphoblastic leukemia. In a retrospective study the influence of some prognostic
factors and the prognosis have been evaluated in children with an isolated bone
marrow relapse and an isolated CNS relapse. The median survival in 152 children
with an isolated bone marrow relapse was 13.3 months. Favourable prognostic
factors were: duration of first complete remission (CR) longer than 24 months,
age at diagnosis between 2 and 6 years, initial leucocyte count below 50 X
10(9)/l, re-induction treatment with four drugs and the institution of a second
central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis. The most important prognostic factor
was the duration of the first CR. The median survival in 140 children with a CNS 
relapse was 25 months. Favourable prognostic factors were: duration of first CR
more than 24 months, age at diagnosis between 2 and 10 years, initial leucocyte
count below 10 X 10(9)/l and a low blast count at the time of diagnosis of CNS
relapse. The estimated survival in children with bone marrow relapse as well as
in children with CNS relapse is less than 20%.IN CONCLUSION: with current
treatment regimens both bone marrow and CNS relapse have a very poor prognosis in
children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

PMID: 3163855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):358-63.

Postmenopausal estrogen use and coronary atherosclerosis.

Sullivan JM(1), Vander Zwaag R, Lemp GF, Hughes JP, Maddock V, Kroetz FW,
Ramanathan KB, Mirvis DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Baptist Memorial Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether estrogen replacement therapy affects the
prevalence of severely obstructive coronary arterial lesions defined by selective
coronary arteriography.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
SETTING: Large, urban, university-affiliated referral hospital.
PATIENTS: From a consecutive sample of 6452 women having coronary arteriography
between 1972 and 1984, 2188 patients were eligible for study; others were
excluded because they were nonmenopausal, had congenital heart defects, valvular 
heart disorders, primary myocardial disease, or no more than mild to moderate
coronary artery disease.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Hospital nurses routinely obtained medication
histories. Staff invasive cardiologists interpreted coronary arteriograms.
Clinical, laboratory, and angiographic data were abstracted from the cardiac
catheterization reports and entered into a computerized registry. Postmenopausal 
estrogen use for 1444 cases of coronary artery disease (70% stenosis) was
compared to that 744 controls (0% stenosis). The odds ratio estimate of the risk 
of coronary artery disease for estrogen users relative to the risk of coronary
artery disease for nonusers was 0.44 (95% confidence interval, 0.29 to 0.67)
after adjustment for age, cigarette smoking, diabetes, cholesterol, and
hypertension. Postmenopausal estrogen replacement was a significant independent
protective factor for coronary artery disease in a multivariate logistic
regression model (P = 0.037).
CONCLUSION: The data suggest that postmenopausal estrogen treatment reduces the
risk for angiographically significant coronary artery disease.

PMID: 3341672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):345-9.

Pleural fluid pH in malignant effusions. Diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic 
implications.

Sahn SA(1), Good JT Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the measurement of pleural fluid pH in
malignant effusions has diagnostic use, predicts survival, and has therapeutic
implications.
DESIGN: A prospective comparison of cytologic examinations and pleural biopsy
results, survival, and response to chemical pleurodesis with tetracycline in
patients with normal-pH (7.30 or greater) and low-pH (less than 7.30) malignant
pleural effusions.
SETTING: Academic medical center, university referral hospital, city hospital,
and Veterans Administration hospital.
PATIENTS: Sixty patients with malignant pleural effusions, proven at either
initial thoracentesis by cytologic examination or within 4 months of initial
thoracentesis by repeat thoracentesis, thoracotomy, or autopsy, were followed
until death.
INTERVENTION: Twenty-one patients, 12 with normal pleural fluid pH and 9 with low
pleural fluid pH, were treated with tube thoracostomy and intrapleural
tetracycline for symptomatic, recurrent pleural effusions.
MAIN RESULTS: The 20 patients with low-pH malignant effusions had a significantly
greater positivity on initial pleural fluid cytologic evaluation, a shorter mean 
survival, and a poorer response to tetracycline pleurodesis compared with 40
patients with normal-pH malignant effusions.
CONCLUSIONS: Determination of pleural fluid pH in malignant effusions provides a 
rational approach to further diagnostic testing, prognostic information, and a
rationale for palliative treatment.

PMID: 3341671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):402-24.

Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and spine. Is clinical efficacy
established after the first decade?

Kent DL(1), Larson EB.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, Seattle, Washington.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Sep 1;109(5):438.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of demonstrated clinical efficacy of magnetic
resonance (MR) imaging in the central nervous system.
DESIGN: Information synthesis of studies before January 1987.
SETTING: Reports were classified by the level of clinical efficacy studied
(technical capacity, diagnostic impacts, and therapeutic or patient outcome
impacts) and were judged by the validity of their methods, especially avoidance
of diagnosis review, test review, and work-up biases.
MAIN RESULTS: Magnetic resonance imaging probably is superior to computed
tomography for detection and characterization of posterior fossa lesions and
spinal cord myelopathies, imaging in multiple sclerosis, detecting lesions in
patients with refractory partial seizures, and detailed display for guiding
complex therapy, as for brain tumors. In other diseases, the efficacy of MR
imaging is similar to that of computed tomography (cerebrovascular,
radiculopathy, and infection). Magnetic resonance imaging is less invasive than
intrathecal or intravenous contrast-enhanced computed tomography and costs 20% to
300% more than computed tomography, although avoidance of hospital stays may
offset some costs. Generally, the quality of MR images probably exceeds that of
computed tomographic (CT) scans. However, published evidence does not show that
the clinical efficacy of MR imaging is generally superior to that of existing
imaging modalities such as computed tomography. Only six studies avoided major
methodologic biases, and lower true-positive rates for MR imaging were reported
in these studies than reported in multiply biased studies. Few studies of the
potential of MR imaging for false-positive diagnosis have been done.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of standards for quality of evidence leads to more conservative 
conclusions than those of reports describing the clinical potential of MR
imaging. Some applications of MR imaging were confirmed by rigorous studies,
whereas others were not well supported by reports free of methodologic biases. If
the diagnostic alternative is invasive (for example, myelography and
cisternography), MR imaging is preferred, but adequate diagnosis for many
conditions (head trauma, simple stroke, and dementia) may not require the detail 
of an MR imaging study. In general, more rigorous clinical research studies are
needed for new technologies such as MR imaging. Because the field of MR imaging
is changing, review of its clinical efficacy will need to be revised frequently.

PMID: 3277514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):350-7.

Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for acute dysuria in women: a single-dose or 10-day
course. A double-blind, randomized trial.

Fihn SD(1), Johnson C, Roberts PL, Running K, Stamm WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare single-dose and 10-day treatment regimens of
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in women with acute dysuria, urgency, or urinary
frequency.
DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
SETTING: Student health center at a major university.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 255 young women including 216 with a
bacteriologically documented urinary tract infection.
INTERVENTION: Single-dose treatment (trimethoprim, 320 mg and sulfamethoxazole,
1600 mg) given to 116 women and 10-day treatment (trimethoprim, 160 mg and
sulfamethoxazole, 800 mg, twice daily) given to 125 women. Women with a history
of sulfonamide allergy were given trimethoprim alone: 10 received single-dose
treatment (200 mg) and 5 received 10-day treatment (100 mg, twice daily).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The rates for resolution of symptoms at 3 days, 13
days, and 6 weeks after entry into the study were not significantly different
between treatment groups. Among women with urinary tract infections, cumulative
crude rates of recurrence in the single-dose and 10-day treatment groups,
respectively, were 24% compared with 5% at 13 days after entry (P = 0.0002; 95%
confidence interval [CI] for difference in proportions, 10%, 28%) and 32%
compared with 21% at 6 weeks after entry (P = 0.07; 95% Cl, -2%, 24%). Factors
independently associated with lower cure rates were a history of a urinary tract 
infection within the previous 6 weeks (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 3.8; 95% Cl, 1.4
to 10.6) and presence of 10(5) bacteria/mL or greater in an initial midstream
culture (adjusted OR, 2.9; 95% Cl, 1.2 to 7.0). After controlling for these
factors, the risk of failure after single-dose treatment was not statistically
significantly different from 10-day treatment at 6 weeks (adjusted OR, 1.6; 95%
Cl, 0.8 to 3.2; P = 0.21). Compared to 10-day treatment, single-dose treatment
less effectively eradicated Escherichia coli from the vaginal flora (P less than 
0.001) and led more often to early same-strain recurrences (P = 0.003).
Meaningful adverse effects occurred in 12% of women given single-dose treatment
compared with 25% of women receiving 10-day treatment (P = 0.009).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with single-dose treatment, 10-day treatment yields a
superior cure rate at 2 weeks after the start of treatment, but by 6 weeks the
advantage of longer treatment no longer exists. This effect may be explained by
the lesser effectiveness of single-dose treatment in eradicating vaginal E. coli,
resulting in more frequent same-strain recurrences within 2 weeks of
treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3257670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):334-40.

Glyburide or insulin for metabolic control in non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus. A randomized, double-blind study.

Nathan DM(1), Roussell A, Godine JE.

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the relative efficacy, risks, and benefits of insulin
with glyburide in achieving normoglycemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with a 9-month
treatment period.
SETTING: University hospital.
PATIENTS: Thirty-one patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus who
did not have normal glucose control with diet alone.
INTERVENTIONS: Once-per-day NPH insulin and placebo glyburide, or glyburide and
once-per-day placebo insulin injection. Active drug and placebo adjusted in
parallel to achieve fasting plasma glucose level less than 6.4 mmol/L (115 mg/dL)
without hypoglycemia.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Insulin and glyburide produced similar improvement
in fasting blood glucose levels and hemoglobin A1c concentrations, similar
frequencies of mild symptomatic hypoglycemia, and similar weight gain despite
dietary reinforcement. Triglyceride and cholesterol levels decreased and
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and ratios of high-density lipoprotein to
total cholesterol increased in both groups, with a significantly greater
improvement in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and ratio of high-density
lipoprotein total cholesterol in patients treated with insulin.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with glyburide or once-per-day NPH insulin provides a
similar degree of glucose control in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus. Insulin may have a relative advantage in that it is associated with
higher levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a higher ratio of
high-density lipoprotein to total cholesterol.

PMID: 3124685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Mar;108(3):328-33.

Intestinal infections in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS). Etiology and response to therapy.

Smith PD(1), Lane HC, Gill VJ, Manischewitz JF, Quinnan GV, Fauci AS, Masur H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology and Immunology, National Institute of Dental Research,
Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of pathogenic gastrointestinal
microorganisms in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and
diarrhea, and to determine if treatment for identifiable microorganisms improves 
symptoms.
DESIGN: Prospective, consecutive sample study.
SETTING: Referral-based clinic and wards, National Institutes of Health.
PATIENTS: Twenty of twenty-two consecutive homosexual males with AIDS and
diarrhea, and 10 homosexual males with AIDS without diarrhea.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients had a complete physical examination; serial stool
examinations for viral, bacterial, fungal, and protozoan pathogens; and
esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy to obtain duodenal fluid and mucosal
tissue to analyze for enteric pathogens or histopathology. Patients with diarrhea
had a malabsorption evaluation. Patients with treatable pathogenic microorganisms
received standard antimicrobial therapy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The 20 patients with AIDS and diarrhea had greater
weight loss, lower mean numbers of helper-inducer (OKT4) lymphocytes, and a
higher incidence of extraintestinal opportunistic infections than the 10 patients
without diarrhea. One or more enteric pathogen was identified in 17 of 20
patients (85%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 65% to 96%) with diarrhea. Only 1
patient without diarrhea was infected with an enteric pathogen. Nineteen of
twenty patients with diarrhea and all 10 patients without diarrhea had chronic
inflammatory changes in their intestinal biopsy specimens. Sixteen patients with 
identifiable enteric pathogens and diarrhea were treated; 11 (69%; 95% CI, 43% to
87%) showed microbiologic, histologic, or clinical improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Thorough diagnostic evaluation can lead to the identification of
enteric pathogens in a high percentage of patients with AIDS and diarrhea.
Specific therapy can lead to symptomatic improvement.

PMID: 2829677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1988 Mar;81(3):269-75.

[Rhythm and conduction disorders immediately after ventricular fulguration].

[Article in French]

Baraka M(1), Tonet J, Fontaine G, Abdelali S, Menezes-Falcao L, Frank R,
Grosgogeat Y.

Author information: 
(1)Service de rythmologie, hôpital Jean-Rostand, Ivry.

Forty-four patients with ventricular tachycardias (VT) refractory to medical
treatment underwent 73 sessions of endocavitary electrode catheter ablation. The 
clinical series included 16 cases of post-infarction VT, 14 cases of
arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, 6 cases of dilated cardiomyopathy, 6 
cases of idiopathic VT, 1 case of sequela of myocarditis and 1 case of VT
consecutive to surgical repair of a congenital cardiopathy. Cardiomegaly was
present in 30 patients, and 16 patients had an ejection fraction of less than 30 
p. 100. None of the patients were receiving digitalis or class I antiarrhythmic
drugs when ablation was performed. A total of 235 shocks of 100 to 320 J (mean
221 +/- 42 J) were delivered. 115 shocks (49 p. 100) were complicated by
dysrhythmia and/or disorders of conduction; 29 shocks (12 p. 100) induced 13
ventricular fibrillations and 16 ventricular tachycardias. No relation was found 
between energy delivered, shock synchronization, haemodynamic status, heart
cavity treated, underlying heart disease, CK MB levels and these arrhythmias. On 
the other hand, ablations performed while the patients were experiencing VT
increased the risk of arrhythmia (p less than 0.02). 36 AV blocks, 21 left bundle
branch blocks, 12 right bundle branch blocks and 11 sinus bradycardia were
observed. With the exception of one right bundle branch block and one left
posterior hemi-block, all blocks were transient.IN PRACTICE: (1) electrode
catheter ablation may be complicated by disorders of cardiac rhythm or conduction
in 50 p. 100 of the cases; (2) these disorders can easily be corrected by
stimulation or defibrillation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3134864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Mar;8(28):7-12.

A document-based review of treatment in outpatient services.

Balding CM.

Author information: 
South West Health Region, NSW Department of Health, Griffith.

OBJECTIVE: To determine criteria for Accident and Emergency outpatient
documentation, to review current practice and to overcome identified
deficiencies.
METHOD: Retrospective criteria audit of 160 records from a random sample of
outpatient attendances over one week at four hospitals. The distribution to
medical and nursing representatives of questionnaires accompanied by the audit
results.
RESULTS: The overall standard of outpatient documentation was high. Problem areas
included the recording of cause of injury, significant laboratory and
radiological findings, discharge instructions and time of disposal. Forms design 
was criticised by some users. Overall, however, non-compliance was seen to be
less of a problem than lack of awareness by staff of what is important to
document in an outpatient setting.

PMID: 3365148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Mar;8(28):26-30.

A test of incident reporting.

Paterson L, Loughlin K.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy of incident reports completely by staff in a 
long term care facility and to test the adequacy of reporting for
comprehensiveness by comparing incident rates to those of a similar facility
using Spearman's rank correlation.
METHOD: 1. Literature review. 2. Comparison of two long term care facilities in
terms of incident reporting requirements, instructions to staff and
categorisation of incidents. 3. Tabulation of rate of incidents over a specific
time period. 4. Testing of comparability of the findings using the Spearman's
rank correlation.
RESULTS: The review of incident reports at one facility revealed an error rate of
approximately 1% when 403 reports were examined for accuracy and completeness
using 15 explicit requirements. The categorisation of incident reports by type
proved adequate. The Spearman's rank computation confirmed that the rate of
incident reporting between the two facilities was very similar.

PMID: 3365146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Mar;8(28):24-5.

Experiences of the Ryde Hospital Day Only Unit in 1986 and 1987.

McCaffrey J(1), Biro G.

Author information: 
(1)Ryde Hospital, Eastwood, NSW.

OBJECTIVE: To monitor and summarise activity of a Day Only Unit as a guide to
management.
METHOD: Attitude survey (patient questionnaire) of adults admitted to the Day
Only Unit over a six week period, a telephone survey and an ongoing monthly
record review of length of stay and complications.
RESULTS: The level of "day only" activity is increasing and procedures affecting 
the quality of care of these patients are being improved. Patients not receiving 
pre-medications had fewer post-operative symptoms. The most frequent patient
complaint related to the coldness of the ward.

PMID: 3365145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Aust Clin Rev. 1988 Mar;8(28):13-8.

Quality assurance in perinatal and obstetrical care: the Norwegian approach.

Backe B.

Author information: 
Norwegian Institute of Hospital Research, Trondheim.

OBJECTIVE: To review the structure of all obstetrical units in Norway and to
monitor the performance of care in terms of perinatal mortality, ultrasound
examination and selected clinical events in routine obstetrical care.
METHOD: I. Audit of all perinatal deaths (270) in five Norwegian counties during 
one year. II. Consensus conference to review the practice and distribution of all
antenatal diagnostic ultrasounds performed country-wide over one week. III.
Statistical review of quality indicators or flag events in routine obstetrical
care.
RESULTS: I. Identification of a significant percentage of "avoidable" perinatal
deaths, most frequently related to antenatal and neonatal care rather than to
obstetrical care--resulting in official guidelines for antenatal care and the
routine audit of perinatal deaths. II. 96% of women surveyed had ultrasonography,
an average of 2.5 examinations each. An investigational procedure already
established practice, it was recommended that one ultrasound performed in week
17-20 should be offered each pregnant woman. III. Clinical obstetrical practice
varied significantly and it was noted that junior obstetricians had not adhered
to established routines. Short and long term monitoring of clinical trends is
considered.

PMID: 3284514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi. 1988 Mar;63(2):240-9.

[Effects of low-frequency pulsing magnetic field upon the respiratory metabolism 
and transmembrane ion fluxes of perfused rat livers].

[Article in Japanese]

Omote Y(1), Nakajima S, Samejima N, Kobayashi S, Nakajima S, Suzaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of 1st. Surgery, Asahikawa Medical College, Japan.

Influence of magnetic fields on biological systems is not completely clear.
Recently, experiments on the effects of weak not heat inducing electromagnetic
fields concerning biological systems have been reported. We have investigated the
effects of the weak low-frequency pulsing magnetic field (PMF) concerning the
respiratory metabolism and transmembrane ion flux of perfused rat
livers.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Livers from male Wistar rats were perfused via the 
portal vein with 95% O2-5% CO2 saturated Krebs-Henseleit Bicarbonate Buffer
maintained at 32 degrees C. In 48 hrs fasted rats, lactate was administered in
the perfusate as a substrate of gluconeogenesis in case of necessity. PMF
generated by the solenoid coil was applied to the perfused livers. For monitoring
of respiratory metabolism of the perfused livers, scanning spectrophotometry and 
NADH fluorometry were applied to the surface of the liver. The effluent was
monitored for PO2 and analyzed for glucose, lactate and pyruvate. Ca2+, Mg2+,
Na+, K+, Cl- ion from effluent were also analyzed.
RESULTS: By being exposed to a low-frequency PMF, the O2 consumption increased in
the perfused livers of the fed rats, but the degree was variable according to the
metabolic state of the liver of each rat. In order to bring about a maximum
reductive state, ethanol was given to the perfusate. Ethanol caused an increase
in NADH and Lactate/Pyruvate ratio and O2 consumption and an inhibition of
glucose production. By exposure to PMF the metabolism of perfused liver was
shifted to the re-oxidative state. In lactate administered perfused liver of the 
48 hrs fasted rats, PMF caused an increase in the livers sensitivity to glucagon.
As regards the transmembrane ion fluxes, PMF acted antagonistically to the
ethanol effect, especially when we used perfusate with low Ca2+ concentrations.
So that an intimate association between PMF and intracellular Ca2+ regulating
system was suggested.

PMID: 3384395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. Jpn Circ J. 1988 Mar;52(3):280-8.

Clinical significance of Vanghan Williams classification for treatment of
ventricular tachycardia: study of class IA and IB antiarrhythmic agents.

Kasanuki H(1), Ohnishi S, Tanaka E, Hirosawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Heart Institute of Japan, Tokyo Women's Medical 
College.

Ninety-eight cases of ventricular tachycardia (VT) were studied using clinical
electrophysiological (EP)-pharmacological assessment to compare the efficacy of
class IA (disopyramide-DP, procainamide-PA) and class IB (mexiletine-Mex,
Lidocaine-Lid, aprindine-AP) agents available in Japan, and to evaluate the
clinical significance of class subdivisions for the treatment of VT. In assessing
the efficacy of drugs, we evaluated their ability to prevent and terminate
induced sustained VT as well as their ability to suppress spontaneous premature
ventricular beats (VPB). I. EP properties: DP significantly extended QTc, ERPRV, 
and the coupling interval by which VT or repetitive ventricular response (RVR)
was induced. On the other hand, Mex and AP had no effect. Although no significant
extension of QRS width was found, the significant extension of the interval from 
extrastimulus to the first induced VT or RVR complex by the three drugs indicates
that all have suppressive effects on conduction velocity within the reentry
circuit. II.CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Correspondence of preventive effects was 67%
for DP and PA (class IA), 54% for Mex and Lid (class IB), 55% for DP and Mex, 27%
for AP and Mex, and 25% for AP and DP. Correspondence of terminating effect was
85% for DP and PA, 80% for DP and AP, 77% for DP and Mex, 75% for Mex and Lid,
and 63% for Mex and AP. For suppression of spontaneous VPB's, correspondence rate
was 100% for DP and PA, 39% for DP and Mex, 64% for Mex and Lid, 61% for Mex and 
AP, and 69% for DP and AP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3373720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Mar;62(3):191-203.

[Study on prognostic factors in bone metastases of breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamashita K.

Author information: 
Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Osaka University Medical School, Japan.

In order to assess the prognosis of breast cancer patients with bone metastases, 
a comprehensive imaging of the skeleton was studied. A total of 256 positive bone
scans from 94 patients was analyzed to institute a new staging system of bone
metastases and to identify characteristic presentations of their prognosis. The
correlation between the image characteristics and the survival was
examined.RESULTS: 1) The extent of tumor spread on the bone scan was classified
into the following three stages: stage 1 (confined to lumbar spine, thoracic
spine or ribs), stage 2 (expanded into pelvis, skull, cervical spine or sternum) 
and stage 3 (expanded further into other areas). 2) Presence of vital system
metastases, extent of tumor spread as reflected in the stage, progression of
tumor spread on the serial bone scans and radiographic evidence of osteosclerosis
were proved to determine prognosis. An appropriate management of orthopedic
complications taking these factors into consideration is required.

PMID: 3392448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1988 Mar;11(3):339-42.

QT-related rate-responsive pacing during acute myocardial infarction.

Robbens EJ(1), Clement DL, Jordaens LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

We studied the findings in a patient who had a TX 915 pacemaker and who was
suffering from an acute inferior myocardial infarction. On admission, we observed
pacing at the upper rate limit due to excessive adrenergic tone. Shortly
thereafter a strong vagal reaction occurred, and the pacing rate fell back to the
lower rate limit. This condition was improved with atropine.CONCLUSIONS: (1) In
the described condition the TX pacemaker behaved in a very "physiological"
fashion; (2) Sudden strong cholinergic activity lengthened the QT interval; (3)
Programming of a steep slope must be avoided in coronary artery disease; (4)
Stimulus-T-wave intervals at maximal adrenergic and cholinergic stimulation
should be taken into account when programming the slope and the T-wave sensing
window.

PMID: 2452423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1988 Mar;11(3):308-14.

The efficacy, electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects of intravenous 
pirmenol, a new class I antiarrhythmic agent, in patients with ventricular
tachycardia: comparison with procainamide.

Gold RL(1), Frumin H, Haffajee CI, Kerin NZ, Jarandilla R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical Center, 
Worcester 01605.

The electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects of intravenous pirmenol
were compared with intravenous procainamide in 17 patients with symptomatic
ventricular tachycardia. Pirmenol was found to prolong the PR interval, the QRS
duration, the QTc interval, the HV interval, the atrial effective refractory
period, and the ventricular effective refractory period. The sinus cycle length
decreased following pirmenol administration. The sinus node recovery time, the PA
interval, the AH interval, the Wenckebach cycle length, and the AV nodal ERP were
unchanged. In patients whose ventricular tachycardias remained inducible on
pirmenol, the cycle length was significantly prolonged compared to baseline.
These changes were similar to those seen following the administration of
procainamide. All 17 patients had sustained ventricular tachycardia inducible
during programmed ventricular stimulation in the baseline state. In four patients
the ventricular tachycardia was suppressed with both primenol and procainamide.
In the remaining 13 patients ventricular tachycardia remained inducible on
procainamide. Of these 13 patients, an additional two patients had their
ventricular tachycardias rendered noninducible on pirmenol.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the
electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects of pirmenol are similar to
those of procainamide; (2) although ventricular tachycardia inducibility
following procainamide was similar to that of pirmenol, an occasional patient
with ventricular tachycardia inducible on procainamide had ventricular
tachycardias suppressed on pirmenol.

PMID: 2452418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1988 Mar-Apr;126(2):161-8.

[Long-term follow-up of 166 surgically treated patients with congenital hip
dislocation].

[Article in German]

Raimann A(1), Saavedra C, Améstica G, De la Fuente M.

Author information: 
(1)Orthopädische Klinik des Krankenhauses Paula Jaraquemada, Santiago, Chile.

166 patients with congenital dislocation of the hip, ranging from 10 months to 5 
years old, were operated between 1958 and 1971. 140 patients were women (84%) and
26 patients were men (16%). 96 patients had unilateral and 70 patients had
bilateral dislocation; that makes a total of 236 dislocated hips. 61 patients
with bilateral hip dislocation were operated simultaneously on both hips. All the
patients were treated with adductor tenotomy and open reduction through Smith
Petersen incision with section or elongation of the psoas tendon. The
postoperative immobilization consisted in a period of one month pelvic toecast
followed by 2 plaster casts with abduction rod during 3 to 5 months. The
postoperatory follow-up ranged from 9 years to 26 years, 2 months; average 14
years, 5 months. The clinical evaluation comprises pain, hip mobility, gait and
muscle power.RESULTS: excellent 138 (59%); good 66 (28%); fair 29 (12%); and poor
3 (1%). The radiological evaluation considered: Mose; acetabular femoral head
index; Wiberg's CD-angle; cervico-diaphysiary angle and radial quotient.
RESULTS: normal 5 (2%); excellent 44 (19%); good 78 (33%); subtotal 54%; fair 90 
(38%), and poor 19 (8%). Complications (hips); infections 12 (5%); 3 of them deep
ones (1%); residual subluxation 19 (8%); reluxation 1 (0.5%). Isquemic necrosis
Grade II of Tönnis 31 (13%); Grade III 2 (1%) and Grade IV 1 (0.5%).

PMID: 3407302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Am J Med Sci. 1988 Feb;295(2):91-3.

Continuous 5-fluorouracil (5FU) infusion in carcinoma of the pancreas: a phase II
study.

Hansen R(1), Quebbeman E, Ritch P, Chitambar C, Anderson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Sixteen patients with metastatic carcinoma of the pancreas were treated with
continuous ambulatory 5-Fluorouracil (5FU) infusion (200-300 mg/m2/day) through a
chronic indwelling central venous catheter. Twelve of sixteen patients (75%) had 
two or more sites of disease, and eleven of sixteen (69%) had liver metastases.
Five patients had previous chemotherapy.RESULTS: partial remission, 3/16 (19%);
stable disease, 8/16 (50%); and progressive disease, 5/16 (31%). Improvement in
ECOG performance status was observed in 2/3 responding and 6/8 stable disease
patients, respectively. Toxicities included hand-foot syndrome, mucositis,
diarrhea, and cerebellar ataxia, which required treatment interruption in 9/16
patients (56%). No myelosuppression or catheter related problems were seen. The
authors conclude that continuous infusion 5FU is a potentially efficacious
palliative therapy in the management of carcinoma of the pancreas.

PMID: 3344760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Anasth Intensivther Notfallmed. 1988 Feb;23(1):3-8.

[Postoperative pain therapy by transdermal fentanyl].

[Article in German]

von Bormann B(1), Ratthey K, Schwetlick G, Schneider C, Müller H, Hempelmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Orthopädie und physikalische Therapie, Justus-Liebig-Universität
Giessen.

INTRODUCTION: Several investigations have shown that constant rate infusions of
opioids are highly effective in the provision of postoperative pain relief.
However, such treatment require intravenous access, the availability of infusion 
pumps and adequate monitoring system. We have studied a transdermal fentanyl
formulation (F-TTS, developed by ALZA Corporation, Palo Alto, USA) which should
avoid these problems.
METHODS: The study was performed in orthopaedic patients scheduled for hip
arthroplasty. 40 patients were included consecutively in a double-blind parallel 
comparison of F-TTS (n = 20) and placebo (n = 20) patches. The patches were
applied 0.5 hours prior to epidural anaesthesia and changed after 24 hours. F-TTS
is designed to deliver fentanyl at the same rate of 75 micrograms/h. For 36 hours
blood samples, pain scores, respiratory patterns and vital signs were collected
frequently. Patients could have supplemental pethidine on demand (50 mg/2 h) if
the pain relief was inadequate.
RESULTS: Fentanyl blood concentrations increased (verum) during the 24 hours
period (removal) and decreased slightly after that. At the end of the
investigation (36 h) fentanyl concentration remained significantly elevated
(about 60% of 24-hours value). F-TTS provided good postoperative pain relief
although 11 patients (of 20) required supplemental pethidine. Patients with
F-TTS, however had very little pethidine compared to patients with placebo. Two
patients (one of each group) had to be eliminated from the study due to severe
respiratory depression or inadequate pethidine requirement respectively. The
incidence of other side effects such as nausea, vomiting and micturition
difficulties were similar in both groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3284400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Angiology. 1988 Feb;39(2):154-63.

Clinical experiences using pneumatic massage therapy for edematous limbs over the
last 10 years.

Yamazaki Z(1), Idezuki Y, Nemoto T, Togawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Tokyo, Japan.

A pneumatic massage apparatus has been developed for the treatment of peripheral 
lymphedema. The stagnant lymph and venous blood are displaced toward the heart by
this pneumatic massage. It has been applied to more than 650 patients with
edematous limbs in the authors' Hadomer clinic over the last ten years.
Satisfactory results were obtained, including decrease in swelling, pain, and
induration. The authors' clinical experiences and statistical analysis of the
patients are reported here.STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: 9 primary (4 males and 5
females) and 646 secondary (28 males and 618 females) patients with lymphatic
edema of extremities have been treated. The majority of the patients had
postmastectomy edema of the upper extremity.
CLINICAL STUDIES: The circumference of the edematous limb was measured before and
after pneumatic massage treatment of forty to sixty minutes, daily or every
second day. (Formula: see text). The rate of swelling was calculated by the
formula described above. Twenty-six cases, treated with pneumatic massage for
more than fifteen months, have been investigated. A decrease in the rate of
swelling was observed in 14 cases (54%), there was no change in 7 (27%), and an
increase was seen in 5 (19%). Electric impedance plethysmographic analysis of
peripheral lymph volume and blood flow indicated that pneumatic massage was
effective in the treatment of edema of the limbs, and its effectiveness was
confirmed also by core temperature measurement of the hand during pneumatic
massage. The decreased circumference of the edematous limb was kept constant for 
a long period of time by daily repeated pneumatic massage and ordinary
conservative treatments. In conclusion, most lymphedema is of a secondary type.
Pneumatic massage was effective in the treatment of peripheral lymph edema, and
the improvement was maintained by repeated daily pneumatic massage and ordinary
conservative treatment. Therefore, before it becomes worse, lymphedema of the
limb should be treated by use of conservative treatments, including pneumatic
massage continued as a long-term schedule.

PMID: 2964798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Feb;108(2):190-5.

Antibodies to vasopressin in patients with diabetes insipidus. Implications for
diagnosis and therapy.

Vokes TJ(1), Gaskill MB, Robertson GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Illinois.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether antibodies to vasopressin play a role in
the development of diabetes insipidus or interfere with diagnosis and treatment.
DESIGN: Random plasma or serum samples for determining of antibodies to
vasopressin were collected from patients and controls.
SETTING: Referral university hospital with most patients studied in the clinical 
research center.
PATIENTS: Twenty-nine healthy controls and 113 patients with polyuria (15 with
primary polydipsia; 86 with neurogenic diabetes insipidus [60 studied before, 28 
during, and 10 after antidiuretic hormone treatment]; and 12 with nephrogenic
diabetes insipidus).
INTERVENTIONS: Antibodies were detected by incubating samples with radiolabeled
125I-arginine vasopressin. The effect of antibodies on diagnosis was studied by
examining the relation of plasma vasopressin to osmolality measured during
dehydration or infusion of hypertonic saline and the relation of urine osmolality
to plasma vasopressin measured during dehydration.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Antibodies to vasopressin were not detected in
patients with primary polydipsia, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, or neurogenic
diabetes insipidus studied before therapy with antidiuretic hormone. Antibodies
were detected in 6 of 28 patients studied during such treatments. All 6 patients 
reported decreased antidiuretic response to previously effective therapy with
arginine or lysine vasopressin but had normal response to desmopressin or
chlorpropamide.
CONCLUSION: Diabetes insipidus does not result from spontaneously occurring
antibodies to vasopressin. The antibodies occasionally develop during treatment
with antidiuretic hormone and, when they do, almost always result in secondary
resistance to its antidiuretic effect. Antibodies usually do not impair the
response to other forms of therapy; they only rarely interfere with the diagnosis
of diabetes insipidus, by falsely suggesting the presence of the partial
nephrogenic form.

PMID: 3341651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Feb;108(2):165-70.

Advanced ovarian cancer: long-term results of treatment with intensive
cisplatin-based chemotherapy of brief duration.

Hainsworth JD(1), Grosh WW, Burnett LS, Jones HW 3rd, Wolff SN, Greco FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of a 6-month course of combination
chemotherapy with hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and
cisplatin (H-CAP) in the treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma.
DESIGN: Prospective, non-randomized, single-institution trial with a 6-month
course of chemotherapy, followed by second-look laparotomy for restaging. Minimum
follow-up after completion of therapy is 83 months.
PATIENTS: Fifty-five patients with advanced (stage III or IV), intermediate- or
high-grade epithelial carcinoma of the ovary. Twenty patients had limited
residual tumor (3 cm or less maximal tumor diameter) after initial cytoreductive 
surgery; 35 had extensive residual disease.
INTERVENTIONS: All patients received chemotherapy with hexamethylmelamine (150
mg/m2 body surface area orally on days 1 to 14), cyclophosphamide (350 mg/m2
intravenously on days 1 and 8), doxorubicin (20 mg/m2 intravenously on days 1 and
8), and cisplatin (60 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1). Courses were repeated at
4-week intervals; 41 patients (75%) received six courses; 10 patients received
five courses, 3 patients received four courses, and 1 patients received three
courses. Forty-seven patients underwent second-look laparotomy after completion
of therapy; 8 had their disease restaged clinically.
RESULTS: Fifty-three of fifty-five patients (96%) had either partial or complete 
response to treatment. Nineteen of forty-seven patients who had a second-look
laparotomy had a surgically documented complete response; 17 of these 19 patients
began chemotherapy with limited residual tumor. Ten patients (18%) remain
disease-free 83 to 108 months after therapy, whereas three additional patients
died of other diseases without clinical evidence of recurrent ovarian cancer.
Nine of twenty patients who began chemotherapy with limited residual tumor remain
disease-free, as compared to only 1 of 35 patients with more extensive tumor (P
less than 0.001). All long-term, disease-free survivors had surgically documented
complete response at second-look laparotomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy after
aggressive cytoreductive surgery should be considered standard treatment for
advanced ovarian carcinoma. Our intensive, 6-month course of treatment produced
results comparable to those previously reported with prolonged treatment.

PMID: 3124679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Endocrinology. 1988 Feb;122(2):427-37.

Tissue specific differences in the insulin receptor kinase activated in vitro and
in vivo.

Burant CF(1), Treutelaar MK, Buse MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425.

We have recently described structural differences between insulin receptors
isolated from rat skeletal muscle and liver. In this report we compared their
intrinsic kinase activity and their precipitability with antiphosphotyrosine and 
polyclonal anti-beta-subunit antibodies before and after stimulation by insulin
in vitro or in vivo. Liver derived receptors incubated with insulin showed 40-50%
less autophosphorylation and exogenous substrate tyrosine kinase activity per
insulin binding site than those from muscle, as well as a 50% reduction in the
proportion of antiphosphotyrosine precipitable receptors. After tyrosine kinase
was maximally activated by iv insulin injection (in vivo), antiphosphotyrosine
antibodies precipitated 60% and 38% of insulin receptors from muscle and liver,
respectively. Addition of insulin in vitro to in vivo activated receptors
increased the proportion of antiphosphotyrosine antibody-precipitable receptors
in both tissues but increased the tyrosine kinase activity only in liver-derived 
receptors, indicating that most activatable insulin receptors reside on the
plasmalemma in muscle whereas a significant proportion (35%) of liver receptors
are not accessible to insulin in vivo. No tissue specific differences were
apparent in the interaction of three site specific anti-beta-subunit antibodies
with the receptors.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The intrinsic kinase activity per insulin
binding site is less in liver than in muscle. This reflects in part the greater
proportion of insulin receptors from liver which do not autophosphorylate on
tyrosine upon insulin binding. 2) Some insulin receptors can be phosphorylated on
tyrosine in vitro without concomitant exogenous tyrosine kinase activation.

PMID: 2827997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. G Ital Cardiol. 1988 Feb;18(2):109-14.

[Evolution and the median- and long-term prognosis of reentry supraventricular
tachycardias in children].

[Article in Italian]

Vignati G(1), Mauri L.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Cardiologico De Gasperis, Ospedale Ca' Granda-Niguarda, Milano.

We have evaluated 37 children with reentrant supraventricular tachycardia and
followed them up for 3.9 +/- 2.7 years. Our 37 patients ranged in age from 1 day 
to 15 years (mean 4.6 +/- 4 years). When supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
began, 14 patients were less than 1 year old (Group A), and 23 were more than 1
year old (Group B). Cardiac heart disease occurred in 6 children, and
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome was present in 7 children. After the initial
episodes of SVT had been converted, chronic therapy was begun in 87% of cases (A 
100%, B 78%) and continued for at least 12 months. During follow-up, therapy was 
discontinued with good results in 51% of patients (A 79%, B 39%). Recurrences
were observed in 19% of cases (A 14%, B 22%), and WPW syndrome was a predisposing
factor. Among those patients who were treated, none of the drug regimens used,
proved significantly better in preventing recurrence.IN CONCLUSION: the long-term
prognosis of SVT is better in Group A than in B. In Group A it is possible to
discontinue therapy in most cases; on the contrary in Group B chronic treatment
is often necessary. In this group it is important to evaluate if and how the side
effects of the drugs can change the long-term prognosis of these patients.

PMID: 3410199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. J Clin Invest. 1988 Feb;81(2):381-9.

Regulation of cell pH by ambient bicarbonate, carbon dioxide tension, and pH in
the rabbit proximal convoluted tubule.

Krapf R(1), Berry CA, Alpern RJ, Rector FC Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0532.

To study the regulation of cell pH by ambient pH, carbon dioxide tension (PCO2), 
and bicarbonate (HCO3), cell pH was measured in the isolated, in vitro
microperfused rabbit proximal convoluted tubule using the fluorescent dye
(2',7')-bis-(carboxyethyl)-(5,6)-carboxyfluorescein. For the same changes in
external pH, changes in [HCO3] and PCO2 affected cell pH similarly ([HCO3]:
pHi/pHe = 0.67, PCO2: pHi/pHe = 0.64, NS). Isohydric changes in extracellular
[HCO3] and PCO2 did not change cell pH significantly. Changes in peritubular
[HCO3] elicited larger changes in cell pH than changes in luminal [HCO3], which
were enhanced by peritubular 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate
(SITS). The cell pH defense against acute increases and decreases in PCO2 was
inhibited by sodium, but not by chloride removal. Peritubular SITS inhibited the 
cell pH defense against increases and decreases of PCO2, whereas luminal
amiloride inhibited cell pH defense against increases in PCO2.CONCLUSIONS: (a)
Steady-state cell pH changes in response to changes in extracellular [HCO3] and
PCO2 are quantitatively similar for a given change in extracellular pH; (b) the
rate of the basolateral Na/(HCO3)3 cotransporter is a more important determinant 
of cell pH than the rate of the apical membrane mechanism(s); (c) cell pH defense
against acute changes in PCO2 depends on the basolateral Na/(HCO3)3 cotransporter
(acid and alkaline loads) and the luminal Na/H antiporter (acid loads).

PMCID: PMC329580
PMID: 3123519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. J Trauma. 1988 Feb;28(2):131-9.

Beta endorphin, a vasoconstrictor during septic shock.

Doty S(1), Traber L, Herndon D, Kimura R, Lubbesmeyer H, Davenport S, Traber D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Surgery, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston.

A relationship between increased peripheral resistance (TPRI) and decreased
cardiac index (CI) and mortality from sepsis has been suggested. The relationship
between endogenous opiates and this response was evaluated.METHODS: Chronically
instrumented sheep were given E. coli endotoxin (LPS, 1.5 mcg/kg x 30 minutes).
In one study, survivors (n = 9) and nonsurvivors (n = 11) of LPS were compared
along with survivors (n = 8) of half the dose of LPS. In a second study, two
groups of animals received naloxone: one (n = 11) had a bolus of 2 mg/kg followed
by a 2 mg/kg/hr continuous infusion started 30 minutes before LPS while the other
had the bolus and infusion started 1 hour after LPS was begun.
RESULTS: Both vasoconstrictive and vasodilative phases were seen.
Vasoconstriction was associated with elevated beta endorphin levels, a pattern
sustained until death in the nonsurvivors. Both pre- and posttreatment with
naloxone lessened the maximum increase in total peripheral resistance index
compared with untreated sheep.
DISCUSSION: The vasoconstrictive aspects of the response to LPS correlated with
elevated beta endorphin levels and with mortality. This vascular response is
attenuated with naloxone blockade.

PMID: 2964529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. No Shinkei Geka. 1988 Feb;16(2):157-63.

[Effects of neurostimulation on the reversibility of neuronal function:
experience of treatment for vegetative status].

[Article in Japanese]

Kanno T(1), Kamei Y, Yokoyama T, Shoda M, Tanji H, Nomura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fuijita-gakuen Health University, School of Medicine,
Aichi, Japan.

Developments in the diagnostic procedures, microsurgical techniques, intensive
care, and the social rescue system have lowered the mortality in cerebrovascular 
diseases, head injuries and other emergencies of neurology and neurosurgery.
However, this decreased mortality has given rise to a new social and medical
problem i.e. vegetative status, which is an increase in the number of people who 
live on with mild or severe residual neurological deficits. During the last two
years, we have used dorsal column stimulation (DCS) for improving spasticity of
hemiplegics. While doing so, we incidentally found an improvement in the EEG in
some of the cases. This led us to use dorsal column stimulation in cases of
vegetative status. In this paper, we describe methodology and our experience with
ten cases of vegetative status. All cases satisfied the definition of "vegetative
status" and had received medical treatment for more than 3 months prior to DCS
without showing any clinical improvement. A neurostimulator made by "Medtronic
Neuro" was used. The neurostimulator was implanted in epidural space, in midline,
at C-2 level under general anaesthesia. Video recording of clinical conditions,
EEG, rCBF and catecholamine metabolism in CSF at regular intervals were monitored
to see the efficacy of this treatment.RESULT: 1) There was an improvement in the 
EEG in nine cases out of ten cases after neurostimulation. This was in the form
of appearance of more wide spread alpha-waves, and was noticed between 3 to 14
days after starting the neurostimulation. 2) Four of these cases showed good
clinical improvement. In the other four cases there was slight clinical
improvement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3259293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1988 Feb;81(2):233-9.

The critical relationship between free radicals and degrees of ischemia: evidence
for tissue intolerance of marginal perfusion.

Angel MF(1), Ramasastry SS, Swartz WM, Narayanan K, Kuhns DB, Basford RE, Futrell
JW.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, School of Medicine, University of
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15261.

Skin-flap ischemia has been associated with the presence of free radicals. In
this study, two enzyme systems involved in free-radical metabolism were used to
compare a distal skin flap to a skin graft. Forty-two rats were divided into
several test groups. A 10 X 3 cm dorsal rat flap was used, and tissue biopsies
for xanthine oxidase and malonyldialdehyde (MDA) were obtained 2.5, 5.5, and 8.5 
cm from the base of the flap at the hours given. In group I (control), the flap
was outlined but not elevated, and biopsies were obtained. In group II, the flap 
was elevated, and biopsies were obtained at 6 hours. In group III, the flap was
elevated, the distal 4 X 3 cm was amputated and replaced as a full-thickness skin
graft, and biopsies were obtained at 6 hours. In group IV, the flap was elevated,
and biopsies were obtained at 12 hours. In group V, the flap was treated as in
group III, and biopsies were obtained at 12 hours. In group VI, the flap was
elevated, and biopsies were obtained at 24 hours. In group VII, the flap was
treated as in group III, and biopsies were obtained at 24 hours.RESULTS: Xanthine
oxidase was significantly higher in all distal biopsies compared to proximal
biopsies. Xanthine oxidase also increased with time. Malonyldialdehyde increased 
over time as well as with distance from the flap base. Distal flap biopsies at 24
hours had greatly increased levels of malonyldialdehyde compared to skin grafts
(p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3336655  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. Z Kardiol. 1988 Feb;77(2):99-102.

[Concentrations of amiodarone and flecainide in plasma and saliva--indications
for the active transport of flecainide].

[Article in German]

Nitsch J(1), Köhler U, Neyses L, Lüderitz B.

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Innere Medizin - Kardiologie, Bonn.

Only the free protein-unbound drug concentration in plasma is pharmacologically
active. The concentration of some drugs in saliva is equal to the free drug
level. We compared concentrations (in plasma before, 30 and 60 min after the
morning dose, in saliva before, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after the morning dose) of
amiodarone (n = 8, 2 x 200 mg orally per day) and flecainide (n = 16, 2 x 100 mg)
administered as chronic antiarrhythmic treatment. Drug levels were measured by
"high performance liquid chromatography".RESULTS: Just prior to the first morning
dose, amiodarone concentrations in plasma were 1.0-2.9 (2.0 +/- 0.6)
micrograms/ml, in saliva 0.02-0.25 micrograms/ml; flecainide in plasma 80-560
(316 +/- 163) ng/ml, in saliva 630-3700 (1749 +/- 963) ng/ml. After the morning
dose we found maximal flecainide plasma levels of 462 +/- 203 and saliva levels
of 3218 +/- 2857 ng/ml. The highest flecainide concentrations in the saliva
(13,400 and 11,300 ng/ml) were found in two patients 30 and 60 min after the
morning dose. Flecainide, but not amiodarone, is excreted actively in the saliva,
probably indicating an enteroenteric circulation. This should be considered to
reduce life-threatening flecainide intoxications by gastric and intestinal lavage
and suction. The concentration of flecainide in the saliva does not represent the
non-protein-bound free drug level in the plasma.

PMID: 3129880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Acta Histochem. 1988;84(2):187-94.

[Spectrophotometric studies on the binding of Victoria Blue 4R to oxidized
insulin].

[Article in German]

Wohlrab F(1), Schwarz J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pathologische Anatomie, Karl-Marx-Universität Leipzig, DDR.

The empirical demonstration of insulin by the basic (cationic) dye Victoria Blue 
4R (V4R; Ivić 1959) shows the character of a histochemical reaction (Wohlrab et
al. 1985), while the chemistry+ of the reaction is not quite understood yet. Aim 
of this investigation: Will the spectral behaviour of V4R in visible light be
influenced by oxidized or non-oxidized insulin? Dependent on the concentration,
V4R shows in aqueous solution 2 absorption maxima (lambda = 597 and 558 nm),
which represents monomers and dimers of the dye. With increasing dye
concentration (200 mumol/l), V4R forms dimers and even higher polymers. Constant 
V4R concentration (200 mumol/l) results with increasing concentration of oxidized
insulin (4 to 16 mumol/l) in a reduction of extinction, while the extinction at
lambda = 558 nm (dimers) is more decreased than at lambda = 597 nm (monomers).
Non-oxidized insulin has no remarkable influence on the absorption behaviour of
V4R. Extinction measurements on V4R stained B-cells of islets of Langerhans after
pre-oxidation of the section resulted in a main absorption maximum at lambda =
554 nm.CONCLUSION: Depending on the concentration, the dye V4R is associated with
the oxidized insulin in aqueous solution, which is also indicated by the
occurrence of an isobestic point in the curve behaviour. This is expressed by the
establishment of a concentration-dependent equilibrium between the dye V4R and
the oxidized insulin (change in the dissociation and aggregation behaviour
respectively of the dye V4R). The determined main absorption maximum (lambda =
554 nm) in the biological material points in the same way to interactions between
the stain and oxidized insulin.

PMID: 3149439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1988;95(1-2):34-9.

Indications for extra-intracranial bypass surgery. New orientation after the
Toronto Bypass Study based on angiographic and non-invasive ultrasound flow
measurements.

Jaksche H(1), Scheffler P, Loew F, Papavero L.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosurgical Clinic, Saarland University, Homburg/Saar, Federal Republic of
Germany.

Angiographic and flow measurement results in 18 cases, who underwent
extra-intracranial bypass surgery, are presented. The method was the Mavis
ultrasound technique.MAIN RESULT: Patients with unilateral internal carotid
artery (ICA) occlusion and additional contralateral ICA stenosis or occlusion had
a permanent cerebral blood flow (CBF) increase as a consequence of the
anastomosis. On the contrary, patients without contralateral flow impairment or
with good spontaneous extra-intracranial anastomosis did not have a real CBF
improvement but only a temporary flow increase on the anastomotic side with
comparable flow decrease in the contralateral ICA. The so-called Toronto Bypass
Study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of extra-intracranial bypass
surgery for stroke prevention but it did not prove its effectiveness in this
regard. Intentionally it did not put or answer the question of possible
haemodynamic benefit for special subgroups of patients with cerebrovascular
occlusive disease. Our results suggest such a haemodynamic benefit, and in
consequence an indication for bypass treatment may be given in cases with ICA
occlusion and additional contralateral flow impairment and without sufficient
spontaneous collateralization. The question of a stroke preventing effect in this
special subgroup should be answered by another controlled study. But this will be
almost impossible to realize because--as a consequence of the Toronto study--at
least in our country almost no further patients are transferred to the
neurosurgeon for possible bypass surgery.

PMID: 3064556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Acta Neurochir Suppl (Wien). 1988;43:85-90.

Prognosis and treatment of cervical spine injuries with associated head trauma.

Steudel WI(1), Rosenthal D, Lorenz R, Merdes W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-University, Frankfurt am Main,
Federal Republic of Germany.

Pathological and biomechanical studies indicate that many injuries of the head
and neck are to be considered as an entity, because cervical spinal fractures and
head injuries are frequently combined. Depending on the localization and severity
of the injury to the cervical spine, the incidence of an associated head trauma
is reported in the literature as being between 6% and 63%. In 59 patients with
cervical spinal fractures hospitalized in our department since 1980, we have
examined the influence of head trauma on the prognosis and the management.
Forty-three patients had fractures and/or dislocations in the lower cervical
spine, and 16 had injuries in the upper region; head injuries were present in 33 
(56 percent); minor injuries in 15, moderate and severe injuries in 10. Lesions
requiring operation were a depressed skull fracture, extracerebral haematomas and
scalp lacerations. Six out of 59 patients died; of these, four had suffered a
severe head trauma. As a rule, surgery of the head and immobilization of the
spine fracture were carried out as the first step followed by realignment of the 
spine with possible decompression and stabilization of the affected segment as a 
second step.CONCLUSIONS: Fractures and/or dislocations of the cervical spine are 
frequently accompanied by head injuries. The severity of associated brain lesions
has a marked influence on the prognosis. The correct identification of cervical
lesions was delayed in about every second patient with minor head injury but
rarely in comatose patients. In patients with altered consciousness an early
spinal stabilization may be useful.

PMID: 3213663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Acta Neurochir Suppl (Wien). 1988;42:109-12.

Cystic craniopharyngioma treated by 90yttrium silicate colloid.

Guevara JA(1), Bunge HJ, Heinrich JJ, Weller G, Villasante A, Chinela AB.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Radiocirugía Neurológica, Clínica del Sol, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Fourteen children and 3 adults with cystic craniopharyngiomas were treated with
intracavitary 90Y, by the procedure described by Backlund. Their ages ranged from
2 to 65 years and postoperative follow-up ranged from 6 to 40 months. Leksell's
stereotactic technique was employed to determine coordinates by CAT. Cyst volume 
was quantified both geometrically and isotopically with 99Tc, values differing by
7%. Dosimetry was determined by applying the formula developed by Loevinger et
al., and 20,000 rads were administered throughout to the cystic wall. All 17
patients, except for 4 children, had previously received surgery, shunts or
radiotherapy, alone or combined. In 4 cases, 90Y injection was the only
treatment, while in 6, the cyst was evacuated at 10 days following radiocolloid
injection. Skull and spinal column gamma chamber studies were carried out on all 
patients at 24, 48, and 72 hours post injection, but no isotope leakage could be 
detected. The patients returned to normal activities except one with multiple
cysts who died. There were no changes in the endocrinologic profile. In one case,
a decrease in visual acuity 18 months after treatment, improved following
corticoid administration.CONCLUSIONS: Though preliminary, these results are
encouraging since it seems that the severe neuro-endocrinologic sequelae of open 
surgery may be avoided.

PMID: 2847496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1988;250:745-52.

Large bowel tumor promotion by diamine oxidase inhibition: animal model and
clinical aspects.

Kusche J(1), Menningen R, Leisten L, Krakamp B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cologne, Köln-Merheim, FRG.

In the intestinal mucosa, diamine oxidase probably is involved in a feedback
regulation mechanism for the termination of proliferation. This was proven by a
considerable promotion of large bowel tumors induced by diamine oxidase
inhibition in a rat model. Carcinogenesis was accompanied by characteristic
alterations in mucosal diamine oxidase activity. In large bowel cancer patients
similar changes in intestinal diamine oxidase activity had been observed as in
the animal model.CONCLUSION: Events entailing a reduction of diamine oxidase
activity are suspicious for large bowel cancer promotion under experimental and
clinical conditions.

PMID: 3151234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jan;37(1):43-8.

[Is cerebral panangiography unnecessary in determining brain death?].

[Article in German]

Link J(1), Wagner W, Rohling R, Mühlberg J.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, Freien Universität
Berlin.

The diagnosis of brain death, i.e. death of cortex and brainstem, can be
established by neurologic examination only if there is no intoxication, sedative 
therapy, or hypothermia. In the latter cases, until now only cerebral
panangiography can establish the diagnosis. We investigated, whether in these
cases cerebral perfusion scintigraphy (CPS) in combination with brainstem
auditory evoked potential (BAEP) can replace CPA for establishing the
diagnosis.METHODS: 40 patients, treated in our interdisciplinary ICU because of
primary or secondary brain lesions and in whom determination of brain death by
neurological examination was contraindicated, were subjected to the following
procedure: When coma was diagnosed, brainstem reflexes were examined. If
negative, an atropine-test was done and this being negative, apnea-testing was
performed. If apnea was positive, BAEP, CPS and CPA were performed. The results
of BAEP and CPS were compared with the results of CPA.
RESULTS: In 38 patients with suspected brain death the first examination showed
complete correspondence between BAEP and CPS on one hand and CPA on the other
hand (Table 3). In patient No. 39, CPS as well as CPA showed minimal
supratentorial circulation, whereas BAEP were negative as was circulation in the 
fossa posterior. In patient No. 40 as well CPS and CPA showed minimal
supratentorial circulation. Brainstem testing with BAEP was negative although CPA
showed minimal brainstem perfusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3354831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jan;37(1):30-5.

[The effect of intraoperative autotransfusion on the oxygen affinity of
erythrocytes].

[Article in German]

Wiegand-Löhnert C(1), Reinhart K.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, Freien Universität
Berlin.

Intraoperative autotransfusion provides several advantages over homologous
transfusion for the recipient. Since the harvested red cells have a normal
2,3-DPG concentration [15, 18], the decreased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin [26] 
that occurs in the recipient after the transfusion of stored blood is thought to 
be avoidable by intraoperative autotransfusion. In a study on the influence of
harvested cells on oxygen affinity in patients by Orr and Blenko [18], however,
it was not possible to demonstrate the superiority of these erythrocytes over
stored red cells in the recipient: whereas 2,3-DPG remained at the preoperative
level in both groups after transfusion, oxygen affinity increased postoperatively
in the study group but not in the control group. In this study we directly
determined oxygen affinity in addition to 2,3-DPG in the harvested cells after
processing. The influence on the recipients' oxygen affinity after transfusion
was analyzed and compared to that of a group of patients who received only stored
blood.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three groups of patients were studied: Group 1
received only autotransfusion blood, group 2 autotransfusion and stored blood,
and group 3 only stored blood. For harvesting, centrifugation, and washing of the
red cells the Haemonetics Cell Saver (CS III) was used. The p50 value - which is 
generally accepted as a measurement of oxygen affinity - was determined as
described by Müller-Plathe and Müller-Plathe [17]. For analysis of these data,
blood was drawn from patients pre- and postoperatively and for the majority of
cases also one or more days postoperatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3354830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jan;37(1):19-23.

[Perioperative anxiety and postoperative pain suppression in intraocular
operations using general anesthesia and local anesthesia].

[Article in German]

Schäffer J(1), Mehrmann M, Heymann-Schramm S, Werry H, Piepenbrock S.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Anaesthesiologie II, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

Intraocular surgery is performed under local or general anesthesia. The
indications for these procedures are often dependent on local circumstances. On
the one hand, the optimal conditions for operations under general anesthesia, on 
the other, the negligible stress of local anesthesia, especially for the elderly,
are emphasized. To clarify this question, perioperative anxiety behavior and
postoperative pain were investigated in geriatric patients undergoing ophthalmic 
surgery.METHODS: Spielberger's state trait anxiety inventory (STAI) was performed
in 31 patients operated on in general (age 71.0 +/- 6.6 SEM) and 31 operated on
in local anesthesia (age 71.6 +/- 6.0 SEM) the day before and 4 h after
operation. 10 patients in each group were also tested immediately before surgery 
in the operating room. Postoperative pain was estimated by the patient and
postoperative sedation by the investigator using a 4-point scale for each over 8 
h.
RESULTS: The state (STAI 1) and trait (STAI 2) anxiety scores did not change in
these geriatric patients. There were no significant differences between the
groups. Postoperative pain was significantly (p less than 0.05) higher after 15
and 60 min after general anesthesia. There was no difference in the frequency of 
analgetic therapy in both groups, but most opioids were given in the first 90 min
after general anesthesia. The patients were more frequently sedated (p less than 
0.05) in the first 90 min after general anesthesia then after local anesthesia.
DISCUSSION: The scores of state and trait anxiety behavior are comparable to a
normal geriatric population, even if normal data cannot always be applied to
clinical situations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3354829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. Anaesthesist. 1988 Jan;37(1):24-9.

[The effectiveness of the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 after the
induction of anesthesia with midazolam].

[Article in German]

Kretz FJ(1), Peisdersky B.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, Freien Universität
Berlin.

The benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 has now been added to the series of
antagonists which have been routinely used for a long time. In the present
prospective, randomized double-blind study, it is investigated whether Ro 15-1788
is able to antagonize the effect of midazolam applied at a dosage of 0.2 mg/kg
for induction of anesthesia.PATIENTS, MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty female
patients (age between 19 and 44 years) undergoing laparoscopy were included in
the study. Premedication consisted of an oral dose of 2 mg flunitrazepam given on
the evening before the intervention and a 7.5 mg oral dose of midazolam 45 min
prior to the induction of anesthesia. After preoxygenation, midazolam was given
intravenously at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg body weight for induction of anesthesia.
Following extubation either Ro 15-1788 at a dosage of 0.2 mg (2 ml) or an
adequate volume of placebo was given according to a randomized double-blind
scheme. Those patients whose vigilance status did not change received either Ro
15-1788 or placebo every 60 s up to a maximum total dose of 10 ml. Prior to
induction of anesthesia, 5 min after midazolam dosing, prior to and 5, 15, 30, 60
and 120 min after the application of Ro 15-1788, the following parameters were
assessed using a multistep rating scale: degree of sedation, comprehension and
collaboration, orientation in space and time, anterograde amnesia as well as
blood pressure and heart rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3128139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1988;178(4):309-26.

Pre-natal development of rat nasal epithelia. IV. Freeze-fracturing on apices,
microvilli and primary and secondary cilia of olfactory and respiratory
epithelial cells, and on olfactory axons.

Menco BP.

Author information: 
Department of Neurobiology and Physiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 
60208.

Olfactory axons and apical structures of olfactory epithelia and of nasal
respiratory epithelia of rat embryos were studied with the freeze-fracture
technique; adult tissue samples of the same sources were used for comparison. At 
the onset of epithelial differentiation (14th gestational day) intramembranous
particle densities are the same for all structures in both epithelial types.
During further development, particle densities in membranes of primary cilia
remain lower than those in membranes of other apical structures. Otherwise, I
found the following from the 14th to the 19th day of gestation. a. Olfactory
receptor cells of embryos of all age groups have axons wherein the membrane
particle densities are about half those of adults. These densities are always
lower than those of dendritic ending structures. Dendritic endings with primary
cilia have lower densities than endings with secondary cilia; densities mainly
increase when the endings sprout secondary cilia. Adult values are reached at the
18th day of gestation. b. Olfactory supporting cells with only globular particles
in their apices gradually transform into, or are replaced by, supporting cells
which also have dumbbell-shaped particles in their apices. Particle densities are
always higher in apical structures of supporting cells than in apical structures 
of receptor cells. Adult values are reached at the 17th day of gestation. c.
Putative ciliated and ciliated respiratory epithelial cells have considerably
lower particle densities in membranes of their apical structures than do
olfactory epithelial cells. Of special interest is that this is also true for
secondary respiratory and olfactory cilia; as soon as genesis of secondary cilia 
in either epithelial type begins, their membrane features differ. Also, in
contrast to apical structures of the olfactory epithelium, particle densities in 
apical structures of the respiratory epithelium do not systematically change
during pre-natal development, and resemble the density values of adults. An
exception are the microvilli of the respiratory cells with secondary cilia,
membranes of which have considerably higher particle densities in adults than in 
embryos.IN CONCLUSION: Transformations of olfactory receptor cell dendritic
endings with primary cilia into endings with secondary cilia, and of olfactory
supporting cells with globular particles in their apices into cells with
dumbbell-shaped particles in their apices are accompanied by increases in the
densities of their intramembranous particles. These developmental changes
parallel the electrophysiological onset of olfactory receptor cell specificity.

PMID: 3177886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1988;115(6-7):669-78.

[Basal cell epithelioma of the eyelids].

[Article in French]

Bonvallot T(1), Raulo Y, Zeller J, Baruch J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Chirurgie Plastique et Réparatrice, Hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

The purpose of this study of 36 patients was to assess the oncological,
functional and cosmetic results of surgery in the treatment of basal cell
carcinoma of the eyelid and to compare them with those obtained with other
possible therapeutic methods.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We report a series of 36 cases
of histologically proven basal cell carcinoma principally located on the lower
eyelid and the inner canthus. 27 p. 100 of the patients had previously been
treated and presented with a recurrent tumour. Mean age was 61 years. Minimum
follow-up was 5 years. Reinforced and potentiated local anaesthesia was given in 
most cases. Tumoral excision was complete in 31 patients, insufficient or
borderline in 5 patients. Intraoperative extemporaneous biopsy was performed in 8
p. 100 of the cases. Repair was carried out by direct suture or by grafting, the 
flap being simple or combined with a mucosal or chondromucosal graft. The
lacrymal passages were destroyed in 5 cases and were not reconstructed in 4 of
them. There was no postsurgical therapy.
RESULTS: As regards the malignancy itself, the recurrence rate was 6 p. 100 and
affected patients who had previously been treated. The cure rate was 100 p. 100
in patients for whom surgery was the first treatment, and 94 p. 100 in the
totality of patients. Functionally, there was one case of ectropion, and epiphora
developed in 7.4 p. 100 of the cases. In this series epiphora was associated with
destruction of the lacrymal passages in only one patient. Satisfactory cosmetic
results were obtained in 85 p. 100 of the cases, bearing in mind that the
assessment was necessarily subjective.
DISCUSSION: Treatments of basal cell carcinoma are numerous. We shall analyze
their results, advantages and drawbacks compared with those of surgery.
Cryotherapy raises technical problems of execution which are responsible for an
excessively high recurrence rate. Chemotherapy has recently been enriched with
the introduction of Solcoderm, but the follow-up is still too short.
Electrocoagulation gives good oncological results, but it can only be used for
small lesions. Radiotherapy (contact, penetrating or semi-penetrating X-ray
therapy, electron therapy) has a cure rate of 95 p. 100 and gives acceptable
cosmetic results. However, it requires numerous sessions, cannot be repeated if
it fails and complicates surgical treatment; in the long term, it carries a risk 
of radiodystrophy. Its functional and ocular complications have been estimated at
9 p. 100. Epiphora is present in 2 to 19 p. 100 of the cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3202575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jan;108(1):30-5.

Gram-positive infections and the use of vancomycin in 550 episodes of fever and
neutropenia.

Rubin M(1), Hathorn JW, Marshall D, Gress J, Steinberg SM, Pizzo PA.

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the appropriate role for vancomycin in neutropenic 
patients with cancer. To review the incidence, types, and outcome of
gram-positive infections in a series of neutropenic patients with cancer.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: Inpatient units of the Medical and Pediatric Oncology Branches of the
National Cancer Institute.
PATIENTS: Five hundred and fifty consecutive episodes of fever and neutropenia in
patients with cancer randomized prospectively on another study to receive either 
ceftazidime alone or combination antibiotics for initial empirical therapy.
INTERVENTION: Intravenous vancomycin (dosage adjusted by serum levels).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Gram-positive organisms were the commonest of the 
bacterial pathogens isolated (63%). Of the 53 gram-positive organisms accounting 
for primary infections (isolated at initial presentation), there were 36
staphylococcal isolates (19 coagulase-negative and 17 coagulase-positive), 13
streptococcal isolates (8 non-group D and 5 group D), and 4 polymicrobial
isolates. Of the 22 secondary gram-positive infections (occurring after
institution of initial antibiotics), there were 10 streptococcal isolates (9
group D and 1 non-group D), 7 staphylococcal isolates (6 coagulase-negative and 1
coagulase-positive), and 5 polymicrobial isolates. Vancomycin was used to treat
26 of the 53 primary infections, but was begun only after knowledge of the
isolate in 25. Vancomycin was used to treat 17 of the 22 secondary infections,
and begun only after knowledge of the isolate in 14. This approach resulted in no
treatment failures for the primary infections, and a single microbiological
failure for the secondary infections. There was a tendency towards a greater
proportion of secondary gram-positive infections in the monotherapy group
compared to the combination therapy group (16 of 282 compared with 6 of 268
respectively, P2 = 0.04 by the chi-squared test); but all were treated
successfully.
CONCLUSION: Vancomycin need not be included in routine empirical therapy for
febrile neutropenic patients, but should be added when clinical or
microbiological data suggest the need.

PMID: 3337513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Jan;108(1):36-41.

Marked disparity in incidence of bacterial infections in patients with the
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome receiving interleukin-2 or interferon-gamma.

Murphy PM(1), Lane HC, Gallin JI, Fauci AS.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the infectious complications that occurred during
trials of immunomodulatory agents in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: A survey of two cohorts of patients with AIDS who participated in
nonrandomized, unblinded, non-placebo-controlled investigations of the toxicity
and efficacy of interleukin-2 and interferon-gamma.
SETTING: Clinical research unit in a tertiary care center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive samples of 52 patients given interleukin-2 and 22 patients 
given interferon-gamma. Selection criteria for referred patients included a
diagnosis of AIDS, hemoglobin level of greater than 100 g/L (2.0 mg/dL),
creatinine level of less than 176.8 mumol/L, bilirubin level of less than 25.65
mumol/L (1.5 mg/dL), the absence of active infection, and the absence of other
drug therapy for 2 weeks before entry. Four patients given interleukin-2 failed
to complete the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous infusion of natural-product or recombinant human
interleukin-2, 250 to 10,000,000 U/day for 23.4 +/- 1.5 (SE) days, or recombinant
human interferon-gamma, 0.001 to 1.0 mg/m2.d for 17.7 +/- 4.8 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty nonopportunistic bacterial infections
occurred in 17 of 52 patients given interleukin-2, whereas non occurred in 22
patients given interferon-gamma (P less than 0.05). Bacteremia accounted for 12
of the infections. Staphylococcus aureus and gram-negative bacilli accounted for 
16 of the isolates. Opportunistic infections occurred in 6 patients during
interleukin-2 infusion and in 1 patient during interferon-gamma infusion (P
greater than 0.5). Clinical and immunologic variables and methods of management
of intravenous catheters were similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: A marked disparity in infection with nonopportunistic bacteria, but 
not with opportunistic organisms, occurred in patients with AIDS who were treated
with interleukin-2 as compared with those who were treated with interferon-gamma.
A high incidence of bacteremia and localized bacterial infection should be
anticipated in patients with AIDS who receive interleukin-2.

PMID: 3122616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1988;139 Suppl 1:72-6.

[Removal of low density lipoproteins on dextrans sulfate in 2 patients with
familial monogenic hypercholesterolemia].

[Article in French]

Aubert I(1), Bombail D, Erlich D, Goy-Loeper J, Chanu B, Bussel A, Rouffy J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine Interne et Pathologie Vasculaire, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris.

Two patients-a 32 year old man with severe heterozygote familial
hyperlipoproteinemia (FH) and a 9 years old girl with homozygote FH-were treated 
over eight months by LDL apheresis using dextran sulfate cellulose column
(Liposorber, Kaneka, Japon). Plasma was separated from blood cells by filtration 
(TPE Cobe) or centrifugation (2,997 Cobe) through peripheral veins. An IV bolus
of 10 IU/kg heparin was given together with local anti-coagulation with 55 g/l
sodium citrate, 20 g/l citric acid at a ratio 1:25. Albumin supply was
unnecessary. Plasma was removed every 2 weeks through liposorber LA 40 in the
adult, and every week through liposorber LA 40 then 2 LA 15 in the child, mean
plasma volume exchanged being 1.2 litres in the adult and 1.5 litres par session 
in the child.EFFECTIVENESS: the DSC column removed on the average 60 p. 100 of
total cholesterol (TC) and 65 p. 100 of LDL.C. Apoproteins B levels were reduced 
by 58 p. 100. After each procedure there was a rapid increase in lipid levels to 
about the 80 to 90 p. 100 of pretreatment value. In the adult, we obtained levels
of TC of less than 300 mg/dl with exchanges every 2 weeks combined with an HMG
CoA reductase inhibitor (40 mg/day); in the child, with exchanges every week the 
same inhibitor did not permit a prolongation of the interval between 2 aphereses.
SPECIFICITY: this was confirmed by elution of DSC column bound lipoproteins by
0.1 mol/l NaCl solution. However, the average removal of HDL.C and apoprotein A1 
was respectively 31 p. 100 and 32 p. 100. Triglycerides levels were also reduced 
(48 p. 100).
SAFETY: this was good in both cases. Using the filtration technic, hypotension
was reported; this side effect did not appear with centrifugation. In the child, 
we observed immediate type reactions: nasal obstruction, headache and abdominal
pain. The change in plasma protein concentration was caused by dilution and/or
non specific absorption.
CONCLUSION: LDL apheresis alone or combined with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor
is a safe technic, simple to manage without special equipment and producing
marked LDL.C level reduction. However, there is also a reduction of HDL-C levels.
Despite its high cost, it is a promising new approach to the treatment of FH.

PMID: 2470281  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. Ann Urol (Paris). 1988;22(3):193-6.

[Prostate-specific antigen in prostatic pathology].

[Article in French]

Teillac P(1), Peyret C, Leroy M, Najean Y, Le Duc A.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris.

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), like prostate acid phosphatase (PAP), are
prostate tissue markers that are useful in prostate disorders. Increased PSA
levels are often seen in carcinomas of the prostate, but have also been reported 
in benign inflammatory disorders of the prostate. We therefore studied PSA levels
in 600 patients aged 22 to 89 years to evaluate the usefulness of this marker in 
prostate disorders. The 600 patients were divided into four groups: 120 normal
subjects, 180 patients with carcinoma of organs other than the prostate, 75
patients with carcinoma of the prostate, and 225 patients with benign hypertrophy
of the prostate.RESULTS: a significant difference in PSA levels was found between
carcinomas and adenomas of the prostate, as well as between stage A carcinomas
and adenomas of the prostate. Conversely, non significant difference was
evidenced between stage A carcinomas and benign prostatic hypertrophy with
inflammation. Rather than a specific marker for cancer, PSA indicates the
presence of active prostatic disease, other investigations being necessary to
determine whether this disease is malignant. PSA remains extremely useful for
monitoring prostate carcinoma patients, especially following radical
prostatectomy.

PMID: 2456712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Biol Neonate. 1988;53(1):1-9.

Left ventricular diastolic function during the first month of life.

Fouron JC(1), Heitz F, Carceller AM, Ducharme G, van Doesburg NH, Davignon A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hopital Sainte-Justine, Canada.

In order to assess possible changes in myocardial relaxation occurring during the
neonatal period, M-mode echocardiograms were recorded serially in 9 normal term
infants and in another group of 10 one-month-old infants. The tracings were
studied with an M-mode calculator. Although individual variations were greater in
the data collected during the first 24 h, no significant difference was found in 
the indices of diastolic function of the left ventricle during the first 4 days
of age. The following changes were observed between data recorded at 4 days and 1
month, respectively: normalized peak rate of left ventricle filling, 4.03 vs.
4.71 cm/s; diastolic peak velocity of early posterior motion of aortic root, 1.89
vs. 5.15 cm/s; peak velocity of left ventricle posterior wall motion in diastole,
3.31 vs. 3.50 cm/s; mitral valve EF slope, 59.05 vs. 84.92 mm/s; left ventricle
isometric relaxation time, 43.88 vs. 28.50 ms.IN CONCLUSION: (1) greater
individual variations are observed in indices of left ventricle diastolic
function during the first day of life, and (2) significant increase in left
ventricle compliance occurs during the first month of life. These changes should 
play a critical role in the clinical course of newborn with cardiopulmonary
disease.

PMID: 3355865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Bull Cancer. 1988;75(1):41-51.

An approach to reduce treatment and invasive staging in childhood Hodgkin's
disease: the sequence of the German DAL multicenter studies.

Schellong G(1), Brämswig JH, Schwarze EW, Wannenmacher M.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital University of Münster, FRG.

From June 1978 through March 1987, 506 children under the age of 16, representing
approximatively 70% of the children with Hodgkin's disease in West-Germany
entered 3 consecutive multicenter studies at 68 centers. The general objective of
these study sequence is to maximize the chance of cure while minimizing
radiotherapy and chemotherapy as much as possible in a combined modality
treatment concept. The purpose was also to reappraise the need for splenectomy
and laparotomy and to define a staging policy which provides adequate evaluation 
of intraabdominal disease. Study II (HD-82) is described in detail. 203 protocol 
patients were enrolled between Dec. 1981 and Dec. 1984. Laparotomy was performed 
in 202 patients, but splenectomy only in 78 (38.4%) using an intraoperative
decisional strategy, developed in Study I (HD-78). Patients were stratified
according to stage into 3 groups (PS I/IIA, IIB/IIIA and IIIB/IV) receiving 2, 4 
or 6 cycles of OPPA/COPP-chemotherapy. Radiotherapy was given only to the
involved fields, the dose depending on the extent of chemotherapy (35, 30 or 25
Gy).RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The event-free survival rates after 5 years are 96% 
(entire group), 99% (stage I/IIA), 96% (stage IIB/IIIA) and 90% (stage IIIB/IV). 
Thus, only involved field radiotherapy with reduced doses is needed, if a
stage-dependent chemotherapy with 2, 4 or 6 cycles of OPPA/COPP is given. The
strategy of selective splenectomy has proven very useful. Based on statistical
analyses concerning abdominal involvement a clinical decisional strategy for
selective laparotomy was developed. Further efforts are needed to reach a
stepwise cautious and controlled narrowing-in on the therapy combining the lowest
long-term toxicity with the highest chance of cure.

PMID: 3282575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. Cardiology. 1988;75(1):32-44.

Relationships between anaerobic threshold and exercise hemodynamic pattern in
patients with previous myocardial infarction.

Opasich C(1), Cobelli F, Riccardi G, Aquilani R, Specchia G.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Clinica del Lavoro di Pavia, Centro Medico di Montescano, Italia.

In 78 male class I and II NYHA patients with previous myocardial infarction, the 
relationships between ventilatory anaerobic threshold levels and hemodynamic
patterns during a maximal symptom-limited stress test in the supine position were
studied. Among the 36 patients with abnormal exercise wedge values, 11 showed an 
anaerobic threshold (AT) less than 35% of the maximal predicted VO2(mpVO2) (group
A) and 23 showed an AT of 36-50% mpVO2 (group B). In 2 patients, the AT was
greater than 50% mpVO2. Among the 42 patients with normal exercise wedge
pressure, 13 showed an AT of 36-50% mpVO2 (group C), whereas in 29 patients, the 
AT was greater than 50% mpVO2 (group D). The mean value of AT in group A was
significantly lower than in group B (8.6 +/- 0.7 vs. 11.7 +/- 0.5 ml/kg.min; p
less than 0.05). No difference was found in the mean of the AT between groups B
and C, while the mean value of AT in group D was significantly higher than in
group C (16.9 +/- 0.4 vs. 12.9 +/- 0.6 ml/kg.min; p less than 0.005). No
significant differences between groups C and D were found in the invasive and
noninvasive parameters considered. Groups C and D were statistically different
from groups A and B for pulmonary capillary pressures, total pulmonary
resistances, stroke indexes, heart rates, arteriovenous O2 differences, total
systemic resistances and lactate concentrations. Total pulmonary resistances and 
heart rates were statistically higher and stroke indexes were statistically lower
in group A than in group B.IN CONCLUSION: (1) patients with normal exercise wedge
values show a higher AT than patients with abnormal exercise wedge values. (2)
Patients with normal exercise hemodynamic patterns classified according to their 
AT show no difference in hemodynamics; in these patients the level of AT seems to
be related to peripheral determinants. (3) Patients with abnormal exercise
hemodynamic patterns classified according to their AT level show different
hemodynamics and different responses in ventricular function; in these patients
the level of AT seems to be related to the cardiac impairment.

PMID: 3342423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. Child Nephrol Urol. 1988-1989;9(6):312-8.

Long-term outcome of one haploidentical live related donor transplantation in
children.

Ingulli E(1), Gonzalez R, Rajpoot D, Pomrantz A, Sumrani N, Hong J, Butt KM,
Tejani A.

Author information: 
(1)Renal Division, Children's Medical Center, Brooklyn, N.Y.

We report on 69 children, 6 months to 18 years old, who received a
one-haploidentical live related donor transplantation from 11/72 through 4/89.
Thirty patients were maternal and 22 were paternal recipients; 23 were Black, 27 
Caucasian, 17 Hispanic, and 1 each Oriental and Arabic. The original diagnoses in
these patients were aplastic/dysplastic kidneys 13%, obstructive uropathy 30%,
focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) 23% and lupus nephritis 10%.RESULTS:
1-, 5-, 10- and 15-year actuarial patient and graft survivals were 98, 84, 84,
84% and 94, 70, 41, 30% respectively. Actual 5-year graft survival of paternal
recipients was better than maternal recipients (p less than 0.05). No differences
were noted comparing actuarial graft survival between Blacks, Caucasians and
Hispanics. 1/16 FSGS and 1/7 lupus nephritis patients had recurrence of their
original disease. Posttransplant therapy in 37 patients consisted of azathioprine
and prednisone while 32 patients received ciclosporin A (CSA) and prednisone. At 
transplantation, CSA and prednisone patients were younger, i.e., 10.7 years
(range 0.5-18) compared to 13.3 years (range 4-18) and (p less than 0.03) in
azathioprine and prednisone patients. The 5-year actuarial graft survival of
azathioprine and prednisone patients was 57% compared to 76% in CSA and
prednisone patients. 16/32 CSA and prednisone patients had their prednisone
discontinued for a mean duration of 18 months (3-54 months). Ten of these 16
patients were prepubertal and had their growth hormone levels measured. All had
an adequate level (greater than or equal to 10 ng/ml) poststimulation. Five of
the 10 patients were less than 6 years of age and exhibited accelerated
growth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3272851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Clin Res Pr Drug Regul Aff. 1988;6(2):129-36.

Comparison of efficacy of ginger with various antimotion sickness drugs.

Wood CD(1), Manno JE, Wood MJ, Manno BR, Mims ME.

Collaborators: Wood CD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Louisiana State University Medical
Center, Shreveport 71130.
(2)LSU, Shreveport, Department of Pharmacology

Ginger and several other medications were compared with scopolamine and
d-amphetamine for effectiveness in prevention of motion sickness.METHODS:
Double-blind techniques were used. The subjects were given the medications two
hours before they were rotated in a chair making head movements until a symptom
total short of vomiting was reached. Standardized N.A.S.A. techniques were used
for speed of rotation and end-point of motion sickness.
RESULTS: The three doses of ginger were all at the placebo level of efficacy.
Amitriptyline, ethopropazine and trihexyphenidyl increased the tolerated head
movements but the increase was not statistically significant. Significant levels 
of protection were produced by dimenhydrinate, promethazine, scopolamine and
d-amphetamine. Protection was further increased by combination of these latter
drugs with d-amphetamine. Efficacy was greatest as the dose was increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The medication of choice in this study was scopolamine 0.6 mg with
d-amphetamine 10 mg. This combination provided good protection with acceptable
side effects.

PMID: 11538042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1988;2(5):340-6.

Incidence and risk factors of prosthetic valve endocarditis.

Arvay A(1), Lengyel M.

Author information: 
(1)Hungarian Institute of Cardiology, Budapest.

To study the incidence and risk factors of prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) we
followed 99.5% of 912 patients who had valve replacements from 1 January 1981 to 
31 December 1985 for 1-6 (mean 3) years. PVE occurred in 27 patients (2.96% or
0.98% per patient-year). The incidence of PVE in the aortic position (3.9%) was
significantly higher than in the mitral position (1.5%): chi-square = 6.1, P less
than 0.025. PVE developed in 19 of 329 patients with bioprostheses (5.8%), and in
8 of 583 patients with mechanical valves (1.4%): chi-square = 14.48, P less than 
0.005). Actuarially at 5-year follow-up, 90.7% +/- 2.16% of the bioprosthetic
group and 98.4% +/- 0.56% of the mechanical valve group was free of PVE (P less
than 0.001). Antecedent endocarditis increased both the incidence and relative
risk of PVE 7-fold compared to patients without antecedent endocarditis
(chi-square = 32.0, P less than 0.0001). Bioprosthetic valve replacement in
infective endocarditis increased the risk of PVE 12-fold compared to valve
replacement by mechanical prostheses.IN CONCLUSION: in the order of importance,
antecedent endocarditis, bioprostheses and aortic position are risk factors in
the development of PVE. Bioprostheses implanted in patients with antecedent
endocarditis further enhance the risk of PVE.

PMID: 3272238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. G Ital Cardiol. 1988 Jan;18(1):55-60.

[Evaluation of peak filling rate for the early identification of daunorubicin
cardiotoxicity].

[Article in Italian]

Trappolini M(1), Matteoli S, Galli V, Grego V.

Author information: 
(1)Unità di terapia intensiva coronarica, Università degli Studi La Sapienza di
Roma.

Anthracyclines are potent anticancer agents and their use is limited because of
their cardiotoxicity which differs from one patient to another and is also
dependent on other concurring risk factors. The radionuclide ventriculography is 
the non-invasive trasteale method used to detect early variations in the Left
Ventricular Function (LVF) using Anthracyclines. The LVF in 13 pts, with acute
non lymphoblastic leukaemia, was analyzed using a Nuclear Stethoscope before and 
after induction therapy with daunorubicin (DNR) at the total dosage of 135 mg/m2.
The mean age of this group was 59 +/- 5 years; 4 of these were female and 9 were 
male. In all pts the Ejection Fraction (EF) for the systolic phase and the Peak
Filling Rate (PFR) for the diastolic phase were evaluated. Results. Before
therapy: 1) normal value of EF (74 +/- 4%) in all pts; 2) normal value of PFR in 
10 pts and a slightly reduced value in 3 pts (PFR middle 3.30 +/- 0.74 EDV/sec). 
After therapy: 1) no significant changes in EF (72 +/- 4%); 2) significant
reduction of PFR values in all pts (PFR middle 2.71 +/- 0.48 EDV/sec; p less than
0.05).CONCLUSIONS: the results show an early involvement of the diastolic phase
(reduction of PFR) in patients who underwent DNR induction therapy. This is also 
evident from the normal EF values.

PMID: 3384249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. J Asthma. 1988;25(2):73-82.

Prevalence of childhood asthma in Taipei, Taiwan, and other Asian Pacific
countries.

Hsieh KH(1), Shen JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Republic
of China.

Two epidemiological surveys of the prevalence of bronchial asthma in
schoolchildren in Taipei, Taiwan, were conducted in 1974 and 1985. The same
questionnaire and school, and schoolchildren of the same age (7-15 years), were
studied in these two surveys. Bronchial asthma was defined as at least three
paroxysmal, recurrent attacks of wheezing and dyspnea in the previous 12 months. 
A total of 23,678 children were studied in 1974 and 147,373 children in 1985.
Data from other Asian Pacific countries were also reviewed.THE RESULTS: 1) The
questionnaire was able to differentiate asthmatics from nonasthmatics on the
basis of differences in methacholine challenge, intracutaneous skin testing,
total eosinophil count, total serum IgE, and RAST between the two groups. 2) The 
prevalence of childhood asthma increased from 1.30% in 1974 to 5.07% in 1985,
with boys dominating in both studies. 3) The increase in asthma prevalence could 
not be explained by air pollution or exposure to new allergens. 4) The prevalence
of childhood asthma in the Asian Pacific countries are generally comparable to
those of Western countries, and the present study and studies from Japan and New 
Guinea showed an increasing tendency. Thus childhood asthma is a major problem in
the Asian Pacific countries as well as in Western countries.

PMID: 3182581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1988;114(2):163-9.

The influence of the microenvironment of liver-specific tumor cell colonization
in a murine tumor model.

Edel G.

Author information: 
Gerhard-Domagk-Institut für Pathologie, University of Münster, Federal Republic
of Germany.

Malignant tumors often show an organ-specific metastatic spread. Some cells of
the primary apparently bear an affinity for growing in the microenvironment of
certain organs. After i.v. injection of myofibrosarcoma cells from the primary ER
15-P into the tail vein of male C57/Bl6J mice, metastases developed in various
organs. A tumor cell line (ER 15-Me3) isolated from liver metastases of the
primary was found to colonize preferentially to the liver. To find out whether
the liver specificity of the tumor cell line ER 15-Me3 depended on the hepatic
microenvironment, tumor cells from this line were transplanted i.m. into the
thighs of mice once (ER 15-Me3 i.m.1) or 5 times (ER 15-Me3 i.m.5), and then
injected into the tail vein of mice. A part of the 5-times passaged tumor cell
line was also injected into the mesenteric vein (ER 15-Me3 i.m.5-Me1) prior to
reinjection into the tail vein.RESULTS: After i.v. administration of tumor cells 
from the first i.m. passage of the tumor cell line (ER 15-Me3 i.m.1) into the
tail vein, the liver-specific metastatic behavior of tumor cells remained stable.
Following the i.v. injection of tumor cells from the 5th i.m. transplant
generation of the tumor cell line (ER 15-Me3 i.m.5) into the tail vein, organ
distribution was similar to that of the primary. After only 1 mesenteric vein
passage of the 5-times i.m. transplanted line ER 15-Me3 i.m.5-Me1 followed by
i.v. injection into the tail vein, did tumor cells regain their liver-specific
colonizing potential. Thus, the liver-specific tumor cell line seems to contain a
small number of other tumor cell populations from the unselected primary. In the 
muscle, these tumor cells have a growth advantage over the liver-specific cells, 
while the latter will grow better in the liver. This indicates that the
microenvironment may be one important factor influencing the organ-specific
metastatic pattern of tumor cells.

PMID: 3350849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. J Hyg Epidemiol Microbiol Immunol. 1988;32(3):279-85.

Hormonal and organ weight changes in rats exposed to simultaneous chronic effects
of CO and NO2.

Vyskocil A(1), Tusl M, Chmelar V.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Hradec Králové, Czechoslovakia.

Activity of the pituitary-adrenocortical, sympathico-adrenomedullary and thyroid 
gland systems was examined in groups of male adult rats, average weight 180 g,
exposed for 2 months to a mixture of 7 mg.m-3 NO2 and 32 mg.m-3 CO in air and in 
groups of matched controls inhaling fresh air. Corticosterone (B) concentrations 
in the serum of rats were determined by the competitive protein-binding method,
noradrenaline (NA) in the hypothalamus and catecholamines (CA) in suprarenals by 
fluorometry, thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) in the thyroid gland by the
RIA technique. Measurements of organ weight were related to overall body weight. 
The data emerging from this study were evaluated using the Student
t-test.CONCLUSIONS: one-month exposure led to a decrease in hypothalamic NA and
an increase in rat spleen weight; increase in CA concentration in the adrenals
was initially insignificant, by the end of a 2-month exposure it reached the
level of statistical significance; serum concentrations of B, T3 and T4 remained 
unaffected and so was the weight of the body, liver, lungs, suprarenals and the
hypothalamus of exposed rats; at the concentrations used, NO2 and CO acted as
synergists producing a mild stressogenic reaction affecting the activity of the
sympathico-adrenomedullary system of exposed rats.

PMID: 3198909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. J Invest Surg. 1988;1(1):28-34.

Radionuclide study of platelets and prosthetic interactions: external versus
specimen quantitation.

Nordestgaard AG(1), Marcus CS, Wilson SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance 90509.

Twenty-nine New Zealand white rabbits were allocated to undergo insertion of
either polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) (n = 22) or microporous silicone rubber
(SR) (n = 7), 3-mm diameter, 10-mm long aortic grafts. Animals with PTFE grafts
received aspirin (ASA) 10 mg/kg/d and dipyridamole (DPM) 10 mg/kg/d (n = 11) or
placebo (n = 11). Autologous In-111-oxine-labeled platelets were reinfused on
reestablishment of blood flow through the graft. Using gamma camera images, an
external graft platelet accumulation index (E-GPAI) was calculated as the In-111 
activity in the graft area to the reference aorta at 24, 48, and 72 hours post
implantation. Mean E-GPAI +/- SEM values for the ASA/DPM (n = 4) and control
groups (n = 7) were 1.13 +/- 0.16 and 1.34 +/- 0.05 (NS) at 24 hours, 1.20 +/-
0.16 and 1.33 +/- 0.07 (NS) at 48 hours, and 1.38 +/- 0.07 and 1.35 +/- 0.10 (NS)
at 72 hours, respectively. A similar internal graft platelet accumulation index
(I-GPAI) was constructed based on In-111 activity in excised grafts and reference
aorta measured in a scintillation counter. Mean I-GPAI +/- SEM values for the
PTFE ASA/DPM (n = 9) and control groups (n = 8) at 48 hours post implantation
were 43.1 +/- 2.7 and 216.8 +/- 73.9 (P = 0.05), respectively. I-GPAI values for 
the SR grafts were 192.5 +/- 43.1.CONCLUSION: The E-GPAI was not sensitive enough
to demonstrate the effect of antiplatelet medication on platelet accumulation on 
the PTFE grafts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3154077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. J Mal Vasc. 1988;13(1):5-10.

[Intermittent arterial claudication. Clinical aspects--hemodynamic correlation].

[Article in French]

Boccalon H(1), Ginestet MC, Gaye-Palettes JF, Puel P.

Author information: 
(1)Angiologie, C.H.U. Rangueil, Toulouse.

INTRODUCTION: Intermittent arterial claudication is the master symptom in lower
limbs arteriopathy. It is used as a reference in invasive or non-invasive
arterial explorations. It allows to assess the evolutive degree of the disease
and above all helps the therapeutic decision. The seat of claudication is
traditionally acknowledged as being located immediately downstream of the
significant arterial lesion. The purpose of our work was to verify such a notion 
and ascertain the relation between spontaneous and tread-mill induced
claudication.
PROTOCOL: 60 stage-2 arteritic patients were included in a prospective mode
study. They were all taken in hospital for arteriographic check-up and vascular
functional explorations: Doppler velocimetry, segment pressures, treadmill tests 
and pressure measurements after stress. The patients were classified according to
age (table I), time of claudication record (table II) and lesions location (table
III). All clinical and paraclinical data were recorded with a view to
correlations interpretation.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The relation between spontaneous claudication and
tread-mill induced claudication was studied with respect to lesion sites (table
IV). Among 37 patients 46% of the claudications observed appeared at iliac stage 
in both cases (fig. 1). In 35 cases, femoral claudication was observed in 48%
(fig. 2). As for distal claudication among 6 patients, 3 showed calf claudication
in both cases, i had foot claudication and 2 showed discrepant claudication
types. The relation between claudication and lesion site was not confirmed in all
cases. Buttock claudication always appeared in relation with a lesion upstream or
an internal iliac lesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3346616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. J Mal Vasc. 1988;13(2):89-94.

[The concept of critical arterial stenosis: value of a model of measures obtained
by an angiographic method and the Doppler technic before and after transluminal
angioplasty of the iliac arteries].

[Article in French]

Chirossel P(1), Barbe R, Clermont A, Revel D, Amiel M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'exploration fonctionnelle vasculaire, UA, CNRS, 1216, Hôpital
Cardiologique, Lyon.

INTRODUCTION: Numerous studies in the literature have proven the fact that a
critical size appears during the stenosis evolution. The work presented is a non 
invasive approach of this value, with correlation to the invasive results. The
study was realized on a homogeneous group of 23 arteriopathic patients, selected 
for iliac artery angioplasty procedure.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients selection: twenty-three patients including 24
angioplasty procedures have been selected on a 21 month time study. Invasive
data: two measurements are realized during angioplasty: trans-stenotic pressure
gradient before and after angioplasty. stenosis calibration: both diameter and
section have been calculated on radiological films. Non invasive data: a standard
Doppler test is performed on lower limbs. Two parameters are compared with the
invasive data: the ascending time of velocity curve at the common femoral level. 
the systolic pressure index (peripheral pressure/radial pressure).
RESULTS: 1) Critical stenosis--invasive techniques (fig. 1): trans-stenotic
pressure gradient versus stenotic measurements shaw an hyperbolic correlation.
The critical stenotic level is found to be 60% in diameter and 80% in section. 2)
Critical stenosis--non invasive techniques: stenotic measurements compared to
ascending time (fig. 2) as well as pressure index at rest (fig. 3) shaw the same 
type of curve. The critical stenotic level is found to be the same than with
invasive techniques.
DISCUSSION: Some discordant results open the discussion about angioplasty as a
"gold standard", specially with a geometrical analysis. Bad precision in non
regular stenosis. Hemodynamic consequences of turbulent stenosis are not
evaluated. Clinical interest of critical stenotic notion is underlined.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2969404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. Jpn J Physiol. 1988;38(5):619-41.

The effect of cAMP on ion transport in the proximal tubular cells in bullfrog
kidney.

Fujimoto M(1), Hagiwara N, Kubota T, Kotera K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

Using a direct cellular micropuncture technique with double-barreled
ion-selective microelectrodes, we investigated the effect of dibutyryl-cyclic AMP
(db-cAMP) on the membrane potential and the transport of Na+, K+, and H+ in
doubly-perfused bullfrog proximal tubules. The peritubular membrane potential
difference (EM) and the intracellular K+, Na+ activities ((K)i, (Na)i) or
intracellular and luminal pH were monitored continuously after peritubular
administration of db-cAMP (10(-3)-10(-4)M).RESULTS: 1) db-cAMP hyperpolarized the
EM by 8.0 mV with an increase of (K)i by 4.8 mEq/l; 2) the peritubular
administration of high K+ (13.5 and 50 mM) solutions depolarized the EM by 11.5
and 41.5 mV, respectively. The high K+ perfusate with db-cAMP produced a
depolarization to the same level as that in simple high K+ perfusion without
db-cAMP; 3) db-cAMP transiently blocked the luminal acidification concomitantly
with a cellular alkalinization by about 0.1 pH; and 4) db-cAMP caused a decrease 
of (Na)i by 5.0 mEq/l.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) cAMP causes an increase of K+ permeability in the peritubular
membrane; 2) cAMP induces a cytosol alkalosis by enhancing incorporation of H+
into the subcellular vesicles, thus favoring the activation of Na+/K+ pump; and
3) cAMP, in effect, suppresses the Na+/H+ exchange mechanism in the luminal
membrane and transiently blocks the proximal urinary acidification.

PMID: 2851674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1988;373(1):5-11.

[Results and critical analysis of the treatment of obesity with the intragastric 
balloon].

[Article in German]

Abri O(1), Schwenger-Holst I, Hermanns LM, Kraas E, Schairer W.

Author information: 
(1)I. Chirurgische Abteilung, Krankenhaus Moabit, Berlin.

In 54 patients with excessive obesity a silicone balloon was implanted
endoscopically into the stomach. The overweight amounted to 76% (median) by
Broca's formula. The therapeutical plan included balloon-implantation, dietary
treatment, psychotherapeutical guidance, kineto-therapy and balloon-extraction.
According to their therapeutical compliance there were three different groups of 
patients: G1 - maintenance of therapy; G2 - discontinuation of therapy; G3 - no
additional therapy at all after balloon implantation. Up to the sixth week a
weight reduction of 9.5-20.5 kg could be demonstrated in all groups. Only in the 
first group a further weight reduction by a mean of 20 kg after 20 weeks was
noted. Patients in group 2 and 3 - in some the balloon was still implanted - had 
a renewed weight increase sometimes surmounting the original
weight.COMPLICATIONS: 3 gastric respectively duodenal ulcers, one subileus. The
long-term success can only be obtained by a multi-component therapy plan.

PMID: 3357373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Life Sci. 1988;42(24):2457-65.

Tamoxifen counteracts estradiol induced effects on striatal and hypophyseal
dopamine receptors.

Ferretti C(1), Blengio M, Ghi P, Racca S, Genazzani E, Portaleone P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical School, University of Turin, Italy.

We investigated the ability of Tamoxifen (TAM), an antiestrogen drug, to
counteract the modifications induced by estrogens on dopamine (DA) receptors on
striatum and on adenohypophysis of ovex female rats. Subacute treatment with 17
beta-estradiol (E2) at both low (0.1 micrograms/kg) and high (20 micrograms/kg)
doses confirmed its ability to increase the number of striatal 3H-Spiperone
(3H-SPI) binding sites in a dose dependent manner. By contrast in the pituitary, 
only high doses of estrogen were effective in reducing the number of DA
receptors. We treated ovex female rats for 15 days with TAM alone or associated
with E2, to see if these estrogenic effects could be suppressed by an
antiestrogenic drug. TAM did not affect the number of striatal DA receptors, but 
significantly increased the adenohypophyseal DA binding sites, without varying
their affinity. No changes were observed in pituitary and striatal DA receptor
density, even when TAM was injected in association with estradiol.IN CONCLUSION: 
TAM is able to counteract the effects estrogens have on DA receptors. However
there is some evidence that it could influence the pituitary DA systems
independently of its antiestrogenic activity.

PMID: 3374265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. Nephrologie. 1988;9(2):77-81.

[The captopril test in nonselected hypertensive patients: absence of value for
screening of renovascular patients and for unilateral small kidneys].

[Article in French]

Idrissi A(1), Boudailliez B, Renaud H, Makdassi R, Westeel PF, el Esper N, Fievet
P, Remond A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie-Médecine Interne, CHRU, Amiens.

The decrease of blood pressure and the increase of plasma renin activity (PRA)
after oral administration of captopril was evaluated in 104 consecutive
hypertensive out-patients in whom the morphology of the renal arteries and
parenchyma was assessed thanks to an intravenous digitalized angiography. Twenty 
five of these patients were excluded because of a natriuresis less than 50
mmol/24 h or non discontinuation of their treatment; 50 of these patients were
classified as essential hypertension, 12 had renovascular disease (10 unilateral 
stenosis 2 of which significant; 2 bilateral significant stenosis); 9 had
unilateral small kidneys (4 significant). The significance was ascertained on the
PRA in the renal veins and/or the decrease of hypertension after surgery. The
decrease of blood pressure after captopril was not different between the various 
groups. The increase after captopril of PRA was higher in unilateral significant 
lesions. However the highest post captopril PRA value was found in the essential 
hypertension group so that renovascular diseases could not be screened by higher 
post captopril PRA values. However taking into account that these latter were
decreasing with age, a better discrimination of significant unilateral disease
was possible in the hypertensive patients above 40 years of age. Furthermore once
the diagnosis of unilateral kidney disease is established by radiological
investigation, the captopril test allows to predict unilateral hypersecretion of 
renin with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 78%.IN CONCLUSION: the
captopril test does not allow to screen the non selected hypertensive patients
for an efficient radiological investigation by intravenous digitalized
angiography but may help to select the patients with unilateral renal disease for
the renal venous PRA evaluation.

PMID: 3050580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Nephron. 1988;48(1):58-60.

Effect of animal sex on experimental ciclosporin nephrotoxicity.

Ross N(1), English J, Bennett WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

Experimental ciclosporin (CSA) nephrotoxicity is reported to be more severe in
male versus female rodents. To investigate these sex differences further, groups 
of male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were pair fed and given either CSA 50
mg/kg or olive oil vehicle by gavage daily for 5 days. Both groups of treated
animals showed azotemia and depression of CIn but there were no sex differences. 
CSA levels were 5,820 ng/ml in females and 6,480 ng/ml in males (p = NS).
Although CSA did not produce enzymuria in either sex, females showed more
extensive proximal tubular cell vacuolization.CONCLUSION: Female Sprague-Dawley
rats are equally as susceptible to CSA nephrotoxicity as males. Strain
differences or experimental design may account for apparently conflicting results
in the literature.

PMID: 3340255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Nephron. 1988;48(1):28-32.

Evaluation of vascular calcinosis risk factors in patients on chronic
hemodialysis: lack of influence of calcium carbonate.

Renaud H(1), Atik A, Hervé M, Morinière P, Hocine C, Belbrik S, Fournier A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie, CHU, Amiens, France.

Linear calcifications of the abdominal aorta and of the iliac and femoral
arteries were measured yearly for 3 years on X rays of 24 patients on chronic
hemodialysis taking variable amounts of calcium carbonate and Al(OH)3 but no
pharmacological doses of vitamin D or 1 alpha-hydroxylated vitamin D derivatives.
The speed of their extension appeared exponential and covariant with the male
sex, age only for men and, independently of these two factors, with diastolic
blood pressure and blood triglycerides. Plasma concentrations of calcium,
phosphate and glucose were covariant with the extension of calcinosis only at a
borderline level. The doses of calcium carbonate and the levels of plasma
alkaline phosphatase were not at all covariant.CONCLUSIONS: (1) The effect of
high doses of calcium carbonate is possibly harmful only when supraphysiological 
levels of plasma calcium are induced, whereas plasma phosphate is not adequately 
decreased. The doses of calcium carbonate per se have no deleterious effect (2). 
Since alkaline phosphatase is not covariant with the extension of calcinosis, the
degree of hyperparathyroidism per se does not seem to play a causative role in
vascular calcinosis (3). The main risk factors of vascular calcinosis are: age,
the male sex, diastolic blood pressure and blood triglycerides.

PMID: 3340252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Neurochirurgie. 1988;34(6):361-73.

[Stereotaxic ventriculocisternostomy in the treatment of triventricular
obstructive hydrocephalus. Apropos of 23 cases].

[Article in French]

Musolino A(1), Soria V, Munari C, Devaux B, Merienne L, Constans JP, Chodkiewicz 
JP.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Neurochirugie, Centre Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, Paris.

During the period January 1975-October 1987, we performed stereotactic
ventriculocisternostomy (V.C.S.) on 23 patients (13 M., 10 F.; age: 11-73 years, 
m: 33). Sometimes used as an isolated therapeutic procedure, V.C.S. may also
follow stereotactic biopsies using Talairach's methodology. Serial stereotactic
biopsies were performed in 15 out of 23 patients showing 11 tumoral lesion, two
arachnoïdal cysts and two cryptic vascular malformations. Eight patients
presented with an isolated aqueductal stenosis. Among the 12 non tumoral
patients, seven had very large triventricular hydrocephalus (6 with a retroclival
dilatation of the third ventricle) and 5 showed significant dilatation. Of the 11
tumoral patients, 7 had significant ventricular dilatation (1 with a protrusion
of the floor of the third ventricle) and 4 with modest dilation. V.C.S. is done
by creating an opening (diameter: 5-6 mm) in the floor of third ventricle with a 
fine forceps introduced through a tubular guide (diameter: 2.45 mm). The
percutaneous double oblique transfrontal trajectory (drill-hole: 2.5 mm of
diameter) passing through the foramina of Monro, avoids superficial and deep
vessels visualised on the previous Stereoscopic Tele-Angiographic and
Ventriculographic study. A systematic verification of the V.C.S. patency is made 
intraoperatively by injection of iodine contrast medium into the third
ventricle.RESULTS: (non tumoral patients: 12) (m follow-up: 4 years): two
patients needed a ventricular shunt after 3 and 1 months respectively, the first 
one because of an associated communicant hydrocephalus, the second because of a
post-operative meningeal infection. Long-term clinical and CT-Scan follow-up
showed that complete resolution (7 cases) or partial (2 cases) improvement of
symptoms and signs was not accompanied by normalization of ventricular size, even
though the dilatation was significantly reduced in 8 cases and to a lesser extent
in 2.
RESULTS: (tumoral patients: 11) (m follow-up: 3 years). Hydrocephalus was reduced
in 6 cases and remained unchanged in 5. Two patients needed a ventricular shunt 2
years after the V.C.S.: 1 patient, because of a tumoral recurrence involving the 
region of the fenestration, the second patient because of adhesive arachnoiditis 
following reoperation for suspicion of recurrence, though this was found to be
granulomatous inflammation. Two patients died as a result of their tumors at 2
and 6 years.
CONCLUSION: Stereotactic V.C.S. is the treatment of choice for triventricular
obstructive hydrocephalus even when there is no retroclival dilatation of the
floor of the third ventricle.

PMID: 3070419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. Oncology. 1988;45(6):458-60.

A phase II trial of a new combination chemotherapy (cisplatin, bleomycin, VP-16
and methylprednisolone) in advanced recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head
and neck.

Senra Varela A(1), Millan Nuñez-Cortes J, Gallurt Moreira P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Cádiz, Spain.

With the aim of increasing complete responses and improving survival in advanced 
recurrent (after surgery and/or RXT) squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck, we scheduled 31 patients to receive the following regimen: VP-16, 100 mg/m2
i.v. on days 1, 3 and 5; bleomycin, 10 mg/m2 i.v. on days 4, 11 and 18;
cisplatin, 120 mg/m2 on day 6, and 6-methylprednisolone, 40 mg/m2 on days 1-7.
Courses were repeated every 21 days. In all, 29 patients were evaluable.RESULTS: 
complete responses (CR) were achieved in 7 cases (24%); partial responses (PR) in
7 cases (24%); the overall response rate was 48%; stable disease in 7 cases
(24%), and progressive disease in 8 cases (27.5%). In 20 cases of the N3 category
there were 4 CR (20%) and 6 PR (30%). Survival: entire groups, 32.7 weeks; CR
63.8 (22+28+72+); PR, 30.2; cases of no change, 29 weeks and in nonresponders, 10
weeks.
TOXICITY: leukopenia, 5/29 (17%); thrombocytopenia, 3/29 (10.3%); anemia, 10/29
(34.4%); nephrotoxicity, 8/29 (10.3%), and alopecia, reversible, 100%.
CONCLUSION: this therapeutic regimen improves the CR rate and survival time with 
a tolerable toxicity.

PMID: 3186156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 1988;12(5):833-6.

Clinical stages of dementia and the dexamethasone suppression test.

Serby M(1), Zucker D, Kaufman M, Franssen E, Duvvi K, Rypma B, Rotrosen J.

Author information: 
(1)New York Veterans Administration Medical Center, New York.

1. This study was undertaken to evaluate the relationship between clinical
aspects of primary degenerative dementia and suppression or non-suppression in
the dexamethasone suppression test. 2. We studied 34 male patients with primary
degenerative dementia (as diagnosed by DSM-III criteria). Dexamethasone 1 mg p.o.
was administered at 11:00 PM and blood was drawn for cortisol determination at
4:00 PM the next day. 3.CLINICAL FACTORS INCLUDED: age, age at onset, duration of
dementia, history of psychiatric illness, severity as measured by Global
Deterioration Scale (GDS) score, and "malignancy" of dementia (rated by years of 
onset to institutionalization and as a ratio of Global Deterioration Scale to
duration of primary degenerative dementia). 4.
RESULTS: 56% of primary degenerative dementia patients failed to suppress. The
highest degree of non-suppression was seen in Global Deterioration Scale 5 and 6 
subjects (Table). 5. An unexpected finding was that a large number of Global
Deterioration Scale 7 patients demonstrated normal post-dexamethasone suppression
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. 6. Some contradictions in previously 
reported studies may be explained by this pattern.

PMID: 3222455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Reg Anaesth. 1988 Jan;11(1):7-11.

[Axillary blockade of the brachial plexus. A prospective evaluation of 1133 cases
of plexus catheter anesthesia].

[Article in German]

Büttner J(1), Kemmer A, Argo A, Klose R, Forst R.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Anaesthesie und Intensivmedizin der Berufsgenossenschaftlichen
Unfallklinik, Ludwigshafen.

The results of 1133 axillary catheter brachial blocks are reported. Effectiveness
and side-effects were monitored in a prospective manner over a period of 1
year.METHOD: The puncture was performed with an 18-gauge plastic cannula fitted
with a solid steel stylet. The stylet has a 45 degrees, short bevel with rounded 
edges. When puncturing the axillary neurovascular sheath, no attempt was made to 
elicit paresthesias with the needle. A distinct "click" and very easy advancement
of the plastic cannula were signs of being well inside the neurovascular sheath. 
To confirm the correct positioning, 0.5-3 ml refrigerated saline solution were
injected. If no paresthesias could be produced, a new puncture was performed
using a nerve stimulator. The plastic cannula was fixed to the skin. For
long-lasting operations or if postoperative analgesia or sympatholysis was
required, a more flexible catheter was introduced through the plastic cannula. As
an initial dose 40 ml 1% mepivacaine was injected via the cannula. If there was
an insufficient block after 20 min, another 20 ml 1% mepivacaine was given. For
long-lasting operations, 40 ml 1% mepivacaine was injected every 2 h.
RESULTS: Surgery was completed in 72% of patients; 24% required some form of
supplementation including 17.2% of patients who received a "top-up" after 20 min 
(Table 1). In 3.8% of cases the technique was considered to be a complete
failure, meaning that patients needed some type of general anesthesia including
the use of i.v. ketamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3353529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Reg Anaesth. 1988 Jan;11(1):16-20.

[The effect of thoracic peridural analgesia on the cortisol and glucose response 
in surgery of the abdominal aorta].

[Article in German]

Stelzner J(1), Reinhart K, Föhring U, Henneberg M, Schäfer M, Fitzner R.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, Freien Universität
Berlin.

It has been shown that the stress response to lower abdominal surgery can be
inhibited by epidural analgesia (EA). But EA seems to have little influence on
the stress reaction to major abdominal surgery. The purpose of our study was to
find out whether EA is able to diminish the cortisol and glucose response to
major transabdominal surgery.METHODS: 31 patients undergoing elective surgery of 
the abdominal aorta were subdivided at random into 3 different anaesthesia
groups: 1. halothane anesthesia, 2. neuroleptanalgesia (NLA) and 3. thoracic EA
with bupivacaine (0.5%) in combination with a light general anesthesia. Some
patients of each group received an intravenous infusion of 5% glucose. Blood
samples were drawn before anesthesia, after intubation, 5 times during surgery
and at the end of the operation and were analysed for cortisol and glucose.
During the early postoperative period, 1, 2 and 24 h after surgery, only cortisol
was measured.
RESULTS: Only the glucose levels of patients who received no
carbohydrate-containing infusion fluids were used for evaluation of the stress
response. In the halothane group, there was a significant increase of the mean
cortisol and glucose levels after the start of surgery. No intraoperative
elevations of blood glucose and cortisol were seen in the EA group. Patients of
the NLA group showed no hyperglycaemia and only mild elevations of the cortisol
levels during the intraoperative period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3353525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1988;75:227-32.

The Gm system. Anti-Gm's: characteristics in rheumatoid arthritis; experimental
induction without resort to allotype; frequent occurrence in mononucleosis.

Grubb R.

Author information: 
Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Lund, Sweden.

Gm system: Some RFs specifically detect Mendelian markers of human Ig, originally
proving that Ig production is gene controlled. The genetic marker systems of
human Ig with 17 Gm, 2 Am, 3 Km and 1 Em markers are briefly described. Examples 
of the usefulness of the Gm system in medicine, immunology and molecular biology 
are mentioned.CONCLUSIONS: 1. Some RFs have been essential tools in elucidating
genetic control mechanisms in Ig production. 2. Knowledge of the Gm system is
extensive. Anti-Gm's: High-titered anti-Gm's are common in R.A. The
anti-allotypes in R.A. are markedly restricted as to their specificity. They are 
usually not directed against the individuals own Gm markers.
Anti-human-immunoglobulins were observed in 12 of 18 sera from patients with
mononucleosis. The majority of these anti-immunoglobulins were inhibitable by
native human Ig and showed restricted specificity.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. There is a strong stimulus for production of particular anti-Gm's
in a majority of R.A. cases. 2. Notions of an autoimmune origin for many
anti-Gm's in R.A. are not in obvious agreement with experimental observations. 3.
Anti-human-Ig's with restricted specificity are commonly induced in
mononucleosis.

PMID: 3070724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1988;75:148-56.

Effect of polymorph derived oxidants on IgG in relation to rheumatoid factor
binding.

Griffiths HR(1), Lunec J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Selly Oak Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

Immunoglobulin G from rheumatoid patients is denatured around the hinge region.
This has been proposed as an explanation for the presence of circulating
autoantibodies to IgG in these patients. It has previously been suggested that
oxygen radicals (OR) derived from activated polymorphs may play a role in
denaturation in vivo. Using sera from rheumatoid patients and age-matched
controls in a modified ELISA technique, we have investigated the potential for
polyclonal rheumatoid factors (RF) to bind to OR denatured IgG. Three model
systems were used to generate OR in vitro: (a) purified PMN s activated by the
cell surface stimulant PMA, (b) radiolysis of IgG in solution to generate
specifically the superoxide radical and, in a separate system, the hydroxyl
radical, (OH.), (c) purified myeloperoxide in the presence of H2O2 and halide
ions.RESULTS: 1. The binding of both IgA and IgM RF s to PMN denatured IgG
increased dose dependently for seropositive sera only. 2. The OH. radical but not
the superoxide radical significantly increased the binding of IgA and M RF, again
only for seropositive sera. 3. The myeloperoxidase enzyme system did not increase
RF binding. 4. IgG incubated with elastase was not found to be a better antigen
than native IgG. These results indicate that IgG is denatured by OR released from
activated PMN, thereby producing an antigen for polyclonal RF s.

PMID: 2853449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(3):155-61.

[Coronary risk factors and their relation to psychosocial factors in females with
myocardial infarct].

[Article in German]

Meyer K(1), Weidemann H, Kokott HJ, Mrazek J, Rittner V.

Author information: 
(1)Theresienklinik, Bad Krozingen.

237 female patients aged 31-76 years with documented first myocardial infarction 
were examined on an average of 3 month after the acute event. Risk factors of
coronary heart disease, sociobiological and psychosocial variables were assessed 
via standardized questionnaire. Risk factors were correlated with social
characteristics, somatic and psychosocial variables.RESULTS: 1.
Hyperlipoproteinemia is correlated with risk factors of nutrition
(hypercholesterinemia resp. hypertriglyceridemia, obesity). 2. The analysis of
smoking habits reveals a positive correlation with social characteristics (e.g.
professional status) and also with the amount of experienced stress. 3. The use
of oral contraceptives corresponded with young age of fertile women and also with
professional status. Furthermore a correlation with a positive working attitude
and smoking behavior was found.

PMID: 3213234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. Tierarztl Prax. 1988;16(2):133-8.

[Comparative trials of four probes for obtaining rumen fluid from adult cattle
with regard to saliva flow into the aspirated sample].

[Article in German]

Wagner D(1), Elmer-Englhard D.

Author information: 
(1)II. Medizinischen Tierklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München.

Four probes for the acquisition of rumen fluid in adult cattle were tested with
regard to their usefulness (pump capacity): probe I = original instrument of
Schambye-Sørensen, probe II = modified Schambye-Sørensen instrument, probe III = 
guidable instrument of Dirksen, probe IV = a simple "home made" plastic
instrument with a metal suction head. In a first step bovine saliva was added in 
increasing quantities (in increments of 5% up to 50%) to normal rumen fluid
samples collected via rumen fistula. Some relevant parameters of the rumen fluid 
were analyzed with these mixtures. The experiments were carried out in order to
obtain data for the calculation of saliva inflow in samples collected by orally
introduced probes. In a second step a sample of rumen fluid was aspirated from
the ventral rumen sac via the fistula before each introduction of the rumen
sound. Saliva inflow was calculated on the basis of the in vitro changes in pH
and in Na+ and K+ concentrations noted with each 5% addition of saliva.RESULTS:
The pH value increased with the addition of saliva more markedly for samples with
a lower initial value. The sodium concentration in the rumen fluid increased
almost linearly by an average of 2.5 mmol/l, while potassium concentration
decreased by approximately 1.4 mmol/l with each 5% increase of saliva. Chloride
concentration of the physiologic rumen fluid was essentially unaffected by
addition of saliva (up to 30%). The methylene blue reaction was slightly enhanced
by admixture of 5 to 10% saliva and prolonged by greater volumes.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3420598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. West J Med. 1988 Jan;148(1):80-1.

Agricultural health hazards.

Goldsmith DF.

EDITOR'S NOTE: The following mini-review is also sponsored by the Advisory Panel 
to the Section on Occupational Medicine.

PMCID: PMC1026027
PMID: 18750374  [PubMed]


1245. Z Kardiol. 1988 Jan;77(1):9-17.

[Cardiac exercise tolerance of infarct patients in exercise therapy].

[Article in German]

Meyer K(1), Weidemann H.

Author information: 
(1)Theresienklinik Bad Krozingen.

92 female patients with myocardial infarction were divided into three exercise
groups of 25 W, 50 W and 75 W according to their symptom-limited working capacity
and examined during bicycle ergometer training. Exercise tolerance, training
heart rate and arterial lactic acid were analyzed.RESULTS: 1. Increase in maximal
working capacity corresponds to a decrease in limiting cardiac symptoms, or an
increase of limiting symptoms, e.g., in tired leg muscles. 2. Intensity of
training (as a percentage of maximal symptom-limited work capacity) is 55 +/-
21%, 73 +/- 15%, and 90 +/- 8% for groups of 25, 50 and 75 W (p less than 0.05)
respectively. 3. Training heart rate and lactic acid increase significantly
proportional to the increase of work capacity. 4. In all three exercise groups,
training heart rate corresponds to about 84% maximal heart rate measured at
maximal working capacity. 5. Mean maximal lactic acid level is at 3.18 +/- 0.97
mmol/l for the whole exercise group on 75 W. Within this group, only a small
subgroup of seven women, who were limited in maximal working capacity by tired
leg muscles, reached the so-called anaerobic threshold of 4 mmol/l lactic acid.
6. Female patients greater than or equal to 60 years have partially significant
higher mean lactic acid levels for the same exercise load as women less than or
equal to 59 years.
CONCLUSION: Gender specific differences in performance in women and the cardiac
situation in female patients were considered on the basis of symptom-limited
performance and body-weight-related physical training, regulated by individual
training heart rate.

PMID: 3363984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Z Kardiol. 1988 Jan;77(1):36-43.

[Effect of intravenous diltiazem on stress-induced myocardial ischemia (study of 
hemodynamics and reproducibility of repeated studies].

[Article in German]

Schnellbacher K(1), Hirsch F, Stengele E, Roskamm H.

Author information: 
(1)Rehabilitationszentrum für Herz- und Kreislaufkranke, Bad Krozingen.

To obtain data about (a) the reproducibility of repeated standardized exercise
tests, under blank and placebo conditions and (b) the improvement of ischaemic
symptoms and of haemodynamics after intravenous application of diltiazem (0.3
mg/kg body weight), 20 patients with angina pectoris and angiographically proven 
coronary heart disease were analysed in a randomized double-blind study.RESULTS: 
a) A control exercise test 1 h after the first blank test showed no significant
changes of the following parameters neither at rest nor during exercise: heart
rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, double product, pulmonary capillary 
wedge pressure, cardiac output, peripheral vascular resistance, stroke volume,
ST-segment depression, symptoms of angina pectoris, and maximal work tolerance
(steady state, supine position). b) After intravenous application of diltiazem,
at rest, both systolic blood pressure (-13 mm Hg, p less than 0.03); diastolic
blood pressure (-10 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and peripheral vascular resistance
(-189 dyn x s x cm-5, p less than 0.02) decreased. During exercise testing,
diastolic blood pressure (-9 mm Hg, p less than 0.02), pulmonary capillary wedge 
pressure (-13 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and peripheral vascular resistance (-152
dyn x s x cm-5, p less than 0.02) were reduced, and angina pectoris was less
severe (p less than 0.01): in comparison to placebo the onset of anginal symptoms
occurred later (24 vs 49 W, p less than 0.01). Maximal exercise tolerance and
maximal cardiac output were improved, and ST-segment depression was less
pronounced. The study shows that haemodynamic data and ischaemic parameters are
well reproducible in repeated exercise tests.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3284218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1988;110(22):1428-32.

[The beta-endorphin level in climacteric women].

[Article in German]

Schurz B(1), Egarter C, Huber J, Wimmer-Greinecker G, Weindlmayer-Goettl M, Metka
M.

Author information: 
(1)1. Universitäts-Frauenklinik, Wien.

Hot flushes are not caused by a hypergonadotrophinemia. Peaks of gonadotrophin in
the serum do not coincide with the cutaneously measured hot flushes. There is an 
occurrence of hot flushes in hypophysectomized women as well. GnRH and other
neurotransmitters (beta-endorphin?) effect the thermoregulation. -HYPOTHESIS:
During the climacteric period changes of neurotransmitters, a decrease of
catecholestrogens, a decrease of alpha-2-adrenoceptor activity and the ceasing of
the ovarian steroid production lead to changes of the endogenous opiate activity 
and thus to disturbances of the thermoregulation resulting in the occurrence of
hot flushes. Low beta-endorphin levels in the peripheral plasma, which increase
again after a treatment with estrogens, are found during the climacteric period. 
On the other hand women with severe hot flushes as an expression of a stress
event show enormously increased beta-endorphin values, which normalize again
after a hormone substitution therapy, effected by still unknown
neuroendocrinological feedback mechanisms.

PMID: 2851901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Dec;107(6):797-801.

Pulse methotrexate therapy in rheumatoid arthritis. A controlled prospective
roentgenographic study.

Nordstrom DM(1), West SG, Andersen PA, Sharp JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Fitzsimons Army Medical Center, Aurora, Colorado.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess whether weekly pulse methotrexate therapy alters
radiographic progression of joint disease in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
DESIGN: Prospective, controlled study. Hand, wrist and foot roentgenograms
obtained before, at the onset of, and during methotrexate treatment were scored
for degree of joint-space narrowing and erosions by three rheumatologists using a
standard method.
PATIENTS: Sequential sample of 24 patients with active definite or classical
rheumatoid arthritis and previous unsuccessful treatment; of these, 3 were
excluded due to drug ineffectiveness; 2, due to side effects; and 1, due to
refusal to take methotrexate.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and prednisone
was continued. Methotrexate was given weekly to control clinical evidence of
disease in patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After having had an average of 30 months of
therapy, the 18 patients who continued to receive methotrexate therapy showed
significant (p less than 0.05) clinical improvement, as evidenced by their
decreased joint counts and joint scores, duration of morning stiffness, pain
scales, and sedimentation rates. Despite patients' prolonged clinical
improvement, the mean rate of development of erosions and joint-space narrowing
during methotrexate therapy was not significantly different from the rate of
radiographic progression before methotrexate therapy (0.043 compared with 0.041; 
p greater than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Weekly pulse methotrexate is effective for the long-term management 
of clinical disease activity in patients with refractory rheumatoid arthritis but
may not be a disease-modifying agent by roentgenographic criteria.

PMID: 3688672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Dec;107(6):809-16.

Prophylactic use of human leukocyte interferon after allogeneic marrow
transplantation.

Meyers JD(1), Flournoy N, Sanders JE, McGuffin RW, Newton BA, Fisher LD, Lum LG, 
Appelbaum FR, Doney K, Sullivan KM, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of prophylactic interferon for
prevention of cytomegalovirus infection and relapse of leukemia after allogeneic 
marrow transplantation.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with intermittent interferon administration to day 80
after transplantation.
SETTING: Marrow transplantation units of a cancer research center.
PATIENTS: Consecutive patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia in remission at
the time of transplantation. Thirty-nine patients received interferon, and 40
were control patients.
INTERVENTIONS: Partially purified human leukocyte interferon given every 3 days
beginning after marrow engraftment and continuing to day 80 after
transplantation. After initial safety testing, the starting and minimum dose was 
6 X 10(4) units/kg of body weight, with dose escalations determined by the
circulating neutrophil count. Transplant conditioning and post-transplantation
prophylaxis of graft-versus-host disease with methotrexate followed standard
procedures.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: No difference was observed in the probability or
severity of cytomegalovirus infection or in the probability or severity of
graft-versus-host disease. Relapse of leukemia occurred in 9 interferon
recipients and 21 control patients, with a minimum follow-up of 4 years among
surviving patients. The probability of relapse among all interferon recipients
was 0.36 (95% confidence interval [Cl], 0.56 to 0.17) and among all control
patients was 0.74 (95% Cl, 0.91 to 0.58) (p = 0.04 by log-rank test). Among
patients who received transplants in first or second remission, the probability
of relapse among interferon recipients was 0.19 (95% Cl, 0.37 to 0.02) compared
with 0.71 (95% Cl, 0.97 to 0.51) among control patients (p = 0.008 by log-rank
test). Survival rates did not differ between interferon recipients and control
patients. Transient decreases in leukocyte count and anorexia and nausea occurred
among interferon recipients. Six interferon recipients, all of whom had received 
chemoradiotherapy of the central nervous system before transplantation, developed
leukoencephalopathy after transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that interferon given after transplantation
reduces the risk for subsequent relapse of leukemia. The effect of longer
administration and of administration in patients with other underlying diseases
will require additional trials. No effect was observed on cytomegalovirus
infection, either because interferon was not initiated until a median of 18 days 
after transplantation or because of a lesser effect among marrow allograft
recipients.

PMID: 2825571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Dec;7(27):175-7.

The assessment of nutritional status in surgical patients.

Hall JC(1), Yap L.

Author information: 
(1)Flinders Medical Centre, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the reliability of clinical assessments of nutritional
status in surgical patients.
METHOD: Prospective observer assessment.
RESULTS: In this study, clinical estimates of nutritional well-being have been
compared with objective markers of nutritional status. Clinicians tended to
under-diagnose the extent of nutritional depletion.

PMID: 3435293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Dec;7(27):171-4.

An audit of electroconvulsive therapy.

Galletly CA(1), Field C, Ormond C.

Author information: 
(1)Hillcrest Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To audit five years experience with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT).
METHOD: Retrospectively audit the case records of all patients receiving ECT from
1981 to 1985. This enabled us to compare our clinical practise with published
guidelines for optimal use of ECT.
RESULTS: Review 486 courses of ECT yielded a total of 3936 treatments. The audit 
identified several areas of clinical practise which do not comply with
recommended standards for ECT.

PMID: 3435292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. EEG EMG Z Elektroenzephalogr Elektromyogr Verwandte Geb. 1987 Dec;18(4):200-6.

[Circadian rhythm-related EEG changes in endogenous depressions and manias].

[Article in German]

Wendland KL(1), Rebers U, Gundel A, Zarnitz T.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Psychiatrie im Zentrum Nervenheilkunde der Universität Kiel.

From 10 endogenous depressive and 10 manic alert but relaxed patients
closed-eye-EEG's were registered at 8.00 a.m., 12.00 noon, 4.00 p.m., and 8.00
p.m., and recorded on tape for computer processing. Simultaneously each time the 
body temperature was measured. The findings were compared with corresponding
former data of 12 healthy young people and 10 healthy aged volunteers.RESULTS:
The peak-frequency of the manic patients proved to be significantly higher than
that of the depressive ones, and besides slightly exceeded that of the healthy
persons. While in the latter temperature and occipital peak-frequency ascend step
by step from the morning to the evening, the depressive patients show a
resembling increase only in outlines in the peak-frequency, whereas the
temperature already decreases from 4.00 p.m. to 8.00 p.m. In the manic patients
peak-frequency and temperature and delta-Power reach their acme at 4.00 p.m., but
as well the peak-power as the power of alpha- and beta-frequency-bands show a
trough just at 4.00 p.m. In the depressive patients, on the other hand, alpha-,
theta, and delta-frequency-bands mainly have their summits at 12.00 noon. Finely 
the manic patients stand out by most significant band-power-variations between
the distinct daytimes, while uninterrupted gradual increasing is extreme rare. In
the depressive persons both these events scarcely are found. The healthy
volunteers have intermediate positions. All in all the results show, that in
endogenous depression circadian variations of EEG-parameters appear disorganized,
while in mania a modified organization prevails.

PMID: 3123197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Eur Heart J. 1987 Dec;8 Suppl L:159-63.

ST 567 compared with propranolol in stable angina.

Ceremuzynski L(1), Nartowicz E, Dluzniewski M, Perkowicz J, Czarnecki W, Burduk
P, Budaj A, Bednarz B, Chamiec T, Jurgiel R, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department Cardiology, Warsaw Postgraduate Medical School, Poland.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of ST 567 in patients 
suffering from ischaemic heart disease and to compare the effects of this drug
with those of propranolol. The study group consisted of 48 male patients, mean
age 53, with stable, exercise-induced angina pectoris. After a two-week
run-in-placebo period, the patients were randomized to treatment with ST 567 3 X 
30 mg (N = 24) and propranolol, 3 X 40 mg (N = 24). The drugs were administered
in a double blind fashion during four weeks. Heart rate at rest was decreased by 
ST 567 from 76 to 65 (P less than 0.005) by propranolol from 76 to 62 (P less
than 0.001). Systolic blood pressure was lowered by ST 567 from 131 to 121 (NS)
and by propranolol from 133 to 118 (P less than 0.05). Exercise tolerance was
increased by ST 567 from 20 X 10(3) to 34 X 10(3) J (P less than 0.05), by
propranolol from 26 X 10(3) to 32 X 10(3) J (P less than 0.01) (mean values).
Anginal attacks (no. per week) were reduced by ST 567 from 14 to 7 (P less than
0.05) and by propranolol from 14 to 5 (P less than 0.01). Nitroglycerin
consumption in no. of tablets per week decreased in ST 567 from 12 to 7 (P less
than 0.01), in propranolol from 11 to 4 (P less than 0.0). There were 7 drop outs
during treatment with ST 567:2 cases of myocardial infarction, exacerbation of
angina in 2 patients, visual disturbances in 2 patients, vertigo in 1 patient.
With propranolol we observed worsening of angina in 1 patient, with disturbances 
in sexual potency in 1.IN CONCLUSION: ST 567 is an effective agent in chronic
angina but slightly less effective than propranolol in the dosages studied.

PMID: 3330528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1987 Dec;55(12):385-6.

[Anaphylactic reaction in enzyme therapy of multiple sclerosis].

[Article in German]

Kiessling WR.

Author information: 
Klinik für multiple Sklerose und amyotrophische Lateralsklerose, Schönmünzach.

CASE REPORT: During enzyme therapy with intramuscular injections of Wobe-Mugos
over 3 weeks a female MS-patient developed a severe anaphylactic reaction. The
problems of enzyme therapy are discussed.

PMID: 3436612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1987 Dec;14(12):3313-8.

[5-Fluorouracil, tegafur, and uracil concentrations in serum and tissue of the
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma after UFT administration].

[Article in Japanese]

Suenaga M.

Author information: 
Dept. of Surgery, Nagoya Memorial Hospital.

UFT is a preparation consisting of tegafur and uracil at the molar ratio 1 : 4.
In 22 resected patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the concentrations
of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), tegafur and uracil were estimated in the serum, liver
and cancer tissues after oral administration of UFT (tegafur, 300mg) before
operation. The concentrations of 5-FU, tegafur and uracil in the serum were
highest at 2 hours, and reduced thereafter. The maximum 5-FU level was 0.040 +/- 
0.034 microgram/ml. The concentrations of 5-FU in the cancer tissue were 0.101
+/- 0.070 microgram/g in all patients, 0.085 +/- 0.050 microgram/g in cirrhotic
patients and 0.144 +/- 0.105 microgram/g in non-cirrhotic patients. These
concentrations were significantly higher than those in the liver tissue. In 10
out of 13 patients, 5-FU concentrations was higher than 0.056 microgram/g which
was reported as minimum effective concentration.CONCLUSION: the concentration of 
5-FU after oral administration of UFT prior to resection of HCC was estimated in 
the serum, liver and cancer tissues. The concentration of 5-FU in cancer tissues 
was satisfactorily higher regardless of cirrhotic or non-cirrhotic conditions UFT
seemed to be a safe and useful drug since tissue 5-FU concentration was higher
than those in the serum and liver.

PMID: 2825604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Herz. 1987 Dec;12 Suppl 1:38-45.

[Effect of captopril on the life expectancy of patients with chronic heart
failure].

[Article in German]

Kleber FX.

Author information: 
II. Medizinische Abteilung des Städtischen Krankenhauses München-Schwabing.

Since the introduction of vasodilator therapy, progress has been realized in the 
management of advanced congestive heart failure (CHF) of different etiologies.
The most encouraging influences on hemodynamics, exercise tolerance and
symptomatology have been reported with ACE-inhibitors. While hemodynamic
parameters do correlate with prognosis in CHF [11, 14, 27], the overall prognosis
in CHF is very poor [19], and there is no tight correlation between
symptomatology, hemodynamics and prognosis [13]. A powerful influence of
ACE-inhibitors has been demonstrated not only on hemodynamics and on the
neuro-endocrine activation in CHF [10], but also on left ventricular hypertrophy 
[22] and myocardial morphology [16, 23]. On the background of these therapeutic
options, we designed a double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial on the 
efficacy of captopril on mortality and morbidity in chronic CHF. The basic
population studied consists of patients of a large community,
university-affiliated hospital, with five sub-specialized divisions in internal
medicine, and about 600 medical beds. All patients considered for participation
live in the greater Munich area.INCLUSION CRITERIA: With slight modifications,
the criteria used in the Framingham Study were used as entrance criteria [19].
Patients were randomized if they were on stable therapy for their chronic
congestive heart failure usually on digitalis and diuretics. Endpoints for the
double-blind treatment period were either death or severe (with digitalis and
diuretics) untractable heart failure NYHA Class IV. Follow-up examinations
comprised office visits of the patients every three months for a precise cardiac 
history over the last three months based on a questionnaire. Captopril was used
in a dose of 25 mg b.i.d.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3325395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi. 1987 Dec;62(6):841-50.

[Clinical analysis of 82 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--mainly on the
evaluation of therapeutic efficacy].

[Article in Japanese]

Kakinoki Y(1), Maekawa I, Kawamura T, Miyake T, Kurosawa M, Okabe M, Kamiya K,
Sasaki O.

Author information: 
(1)Hakodate Kyoaikai Hospital.

A retrospective study of eighty-two patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma whom we 
had treated for the past ten years was performed to discuss the prognosis (50%
survival duration (50%s) and 5-year survival rate (5ys)) of the histopathological
types, clinical stages and therapeutic regimens respectively. Patients were
staged according to the Ann Arbor criteria and classified histopathologically
according to the Lymphoma Study Group (LSG) and new Working Formulation. The
treatment programs consisted of radiotherapy alone (Co alone), VEP regimen
(vincristine, cyclophosphamdde and prednisolone), VEPA regimen (VEF + adriamycin)
and radiotherapy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy (co + chemotherapy). Survival 
curve was calculated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Camparisons in remission 
duration and survival were analyzed by the Logrank test.RESULTS: 1. In 82
evaluable patients, 50%s was 27 months and 5ys was 31%. For patients with
complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) and no response (NR) 50%s was 49,
6 and 4 months respectively (CR vs. PR: p less than 0.01). 2. For the several
histopathological types 50%s was the following: d-medium (6 months) less than
lymphoblastic (17 months) less than d-large (27 months) less than d-small (32
months) less than pleomorphic (43 months). There was difference in 50%s and 5ys
for three grade malignancies classified by new Working Formulation (p greater
than 0.10). 3. For clinical stages (Cs) 50%s was the following: Cs I; 40 months, 
Cs II: 49 months, Cs III: 43 months and Cs IV: 6 months respectively. There was
no difference in its duration in Cs I, II and III (p less than 0.10). However, in
5ys Cs I was superior to Cs II, III and IV in order (Cs III vs. Cs IV: p less
than 0.01). 4. For initial therapy the prognosis was better with VEPA regimen
(50%s: 49 months, 5ys: 39%) than with VEP regimen (50%s: 24 months, 5ys: 24%) (p 
greater than 0.10), and with Co + chemotherapy (50%s: 54 months, 5ys: 30%) than
with Co alone (50%s: 18 months, 5ys: 25%) (p greater than 0.10). 5. For localized
lymphoma (Cs I, II) the prognosis was better with VEP regimen (50%s) 80 motnths, 
5ys: 62%) than with Co alone (50%s: 32 months, 5ys: 27%) (p greater than 0.10),
and the remission duration was significantly longer with VEP regimen than with Co
alone (p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3443427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. J Clin Pharmacol. 1987 Dec;27(12):994-1000.

The effect of renal function on the pharmacokinetics of gemfibrozil.

Evans JR(1), Forland SC, Cutler RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Jerry L. Pettis
Memorial Veterans Hospital, CA 92357.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to determine the effect of renal function on the
pharmacokinetics of gemfibrozil following single and multiple oral doses.
DESIGN: nonrandomized; paired studies of single versus multiple doses.
SETTING: patients enrolled in a veterans hospital renal subspecialty clinic.
PATIENTS: 17 male patients 57 to 74 years old selected for various levels of
renal function, including end-stage renal disease.
INTERVENTIONS: patients initially received 600 mg of oral-gemfibrozil followed by
sequential venous blood sampling. Seven to 14 days later, the patients started
receiving gemfibrozil, 600 mg bid. Venous blood samples were obtained over the
following 10 days and frequently during a 24-hour washout phase.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: peak gemfibrozil concentrations (mg/L) were 11.1
(3.9 SD) for the single dose and 10.2 (3.8) for the multiple-dose study. Time to 
peak concentration (hr) was 2.1 (1.0) and 1.8 (0.6), respectively. The mean
half-life of elimination (hr) from the single-dose study was 6.4 (11.8) compared 
with the multidose study of 3.0 (3.1), which did not reach statistical
significance (P = .25). The difference between the area under the curve for the
single versus the multiple-dose study approached statistical significance (P =
.054). The coefficient of determination for creatinine renal clearance versus the
plasma clearance of oral gemfibrozil was 0.009 (P = .72) for the single-dose
regimen and 0.331 (P = .016) for the multiple-dose study.
CONCLUSION: the half-life of gemfibrozil is independent of renal function for
both single- and multiple-dose regimens. Dosing schedules do not require
alteration for renal insufficiency.

PMID: 3481387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1987 Dec;94(6):848-65.

Direct operations for the management of life-threatening ischemic ventricular
tachycardia.

Ostermeyer J(1), Borggrefe M, Breithardt G, Podczek A, Goldmann A, Schoenen JD,
Kolvenbach R, Godehardt E, Kirklin JW, Blackstone EH, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Chirurgische Universitätsklinik B, Düsseldorf, Federal Republic of Germany.

Between June 1978 and 1986, 93 consecutive patients underwent
electrophysiologically guided operations for life-threatening recurrent sustained
ventricular tachycardia mostly associated with other surgical procedures, such as
left ventricular resection (aneurysmectomy) and coronary artery bypass
grafting.DATA: Eighty-seven percent of the surviving patients were free of
spontaneous ventricular tachycardia return or sudden death 1 year after the
operation and 77% at 5 years. The instantaneous risk of ventricular tachycardia
return was highest immediately after operation, declined rapidly, and by 2 weeks 
postoperatively had merged with the constant hazard phase, which persisted as
long as the patients were observed. Endocardial resection, rather than encircling
endocardial myotomy, increased the risk of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia
return/sudden death. Survival rates, including hospital deaths, were 95% at 30
days, 89% at 1 year, and 70% at 5 years after operation. The most prevalent mode 
of death was heart failure. The absence of anterolateral left ventricular
aneurysms and the use of more extended encircling incisional techniques for
ventricular tachycardia ablation increased the risk of early and late death.
Survival was particularly poor in that subset of patients in whom recurrent
sustained ventricular tachycardia returned after operation; the most prevalent
mode of death in this group was also progressive left ventricular failure.
Inferences: (1) Complete and partial encircling endocardial myotomy incisions are
the most effective surgical techniques for malignant ventricular tachycardia
ablation. (2) Because of their adverse effects on left ventricular structure and 
function, the arrhythmogenic tissues have to be localized as precisely as
possible, and the encompassing incisions should be kept as limited as possible.
(3) The late return of ventricular tachycardia may be more related to a
progressive ischemic left ventricular cardiomyopathy than to an inadequate
operation.

PMID: 3682855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1987 Nov 15;137(20-21):495-501.

[Contraception with steroids in the male. Experimental basis].

[Article in German]

Neumann F.

Author information: 
Leiter der Endokrinpharmakologie, Schering AG, Berlin, BRD.

Inhibition of spermatogenesis is possible with many types of steroid hormones.
Theoretically they could be used alone or in combination for male fertility
control.PROBLEMS: Oral active androgens or anabolic steroids when given in doses 
needed to inhibit spermatogenesis are liver toxic. Injections or administration
of depot preparations every 14 days or 4 weeks is not practicable. Azoospermia or
oligozoospermia does not occur immediately and examination of the ejaculate would
be necessary to be sure whether and when azoospermia is achieved. Patients with
oligozoospermia are not always infertile. It is known from animal experiments and
from prostatic carcinoma patients that after long term suppression of pituitary
function by treatment with steroid hormones the hypothalamic pituitary system
becomes adapted to the high hormone levels and starts to secret gonadotrophins
again. Consequently spermatogenesis is no longer fully inhibited. Regular
controls of the ejaculate would be necessary to be sure, that azoospermia still
persists. Spermatogenesis is also inhibited by synthetic progestogens. As
compared with the doses in oral contraceptives, the doses needed for inhibition
of spermatogenesis are at least 10x higher. When given alone there is also a loss
of libido and potency which demands additional substitution with androgens.
Concerning antiandrogens it will not be possible to find a dose for men which is 
reliably antifertile but which does not affect other androgen-dependent functions
including libido. GnRH-agonists and antagonists have to be combined with an
androgen. But there are some other still unsolved problems.
IN CONCLUSION: A method for fertility control in men based on steroid hormones
will not be realized in the next future.

PMID: 3330370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):664-74.

Ribavirin treatment of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the
acquired-immunodeficiency-syndrome-related complex (ARC). A phase 1 study shows
transient clinical improvement associated with suppression of the human
immunodeficiency virus and enhanced lymphocyte proliferation.

Crumpacker C(1), Heagy W, Bubley G, Monroe JE, Finberg R, Hussey S, Schnipper L, 
Lucey D, Lee TH, McLane MF, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Infectious Diseases, Harvard Thorndike-Dana Research Laboratory,
Boston, Massachusetts.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess safety, tolerance, and the clinical and laboratory
effects of oral ribavirin in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS) and the AIDS-related complex.
DESIGN: Three uncontrolled phase I trials of increasing duration: 14 days, 8
weeks, and 12 months.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic of a university-referral hospital.
PATIENTS: All patients were antibody-positive for the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) by radioimmunoprecipitation assay, all had recovered from
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and none had Kaposi sarcoma at entry. Nine of ten
patients with AIDS had less than 100 CD4+ lymphocytes/mm3 at entry and all
patients with the AIDS-related complex had fewer than 200 CD4+ lymphocytes/mm3.
Five patients with AIDS and five with the AIDS-related complex entered the 14-day
trial. All but two patients with AIDS went on to the 8-week trial, along with
seven additional patients with AIDS. Five surviving patients with AIDS and 3
patients with the AIDS-related complex went on to the 1-year study.
INTERVENTIONS: Oral ribavirin, 1200 mg twice daily for 3 days was given, followed
by 300 mg twice daily for 11 days. During an 8-week trial, a loading dose of oral
ribavirin was administered for 3 days, followed by a dose of 300 mg twice daily
for 8 weeks. Prolonged regimen of a 3-day loading dose was given, followed by a
dose of 300 mg twice daily for 1 year.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Ribavirin treatment was well tolerated, with
anemia requiring transfusion in one of the ten patients with AIDS receiving the
drug for 8 weeks; no other significant toxicity occurred. Six of nine patients
initially positive for HIV-1 in blood became negative during ribavirin treatment.
Six of nine patients with AIDS had a twofold improvement in lymphoproliferative
response to at least one lectin with ribavirin treatment. Mean survival from
first episode of P. carinii pneumonia was 17.3 months in patients with AIDS
receiving 8 weeks of ribavirin and 21.2 months in patients with AIDS receiving
prolonged treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral ribavirin, 600 mg daily, was well tolerated and safe in the
patients with severe AIDS and the AIDS-related complex. Ribavirin therapy merits 
extensive evaluation in a multicenter controlled trial to assess its efficacy.

PMID: 3662279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):635-41.

The automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in drug-refractory
ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

Fogoros RN(1), Fiedler SB, Elson JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of the automatic implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator in preventing sudden death in high-risk patients.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized cohort study.
SETTING: A university teaching hospital with 500 beds.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 78 patients with symptomatic, sustained
ventricular tachyarrhythmias that were previously drug-refractory.
INTERVENTIONS: Before February 1985, patients received treatment with the
defibrillator and amiodarone if they presented with loss of consciousness (group 
A) and amiodarone alone if they did not lose consciousness (group C). After
February 1985, because the availability of the defibrillator was severely
curtailed, patients who lost consciousness received treatment with amiodarone
alone (group B).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The risk for recurrent arrhythmias was similar
between groups. The actuarial risk for sudden death in group B was 31% (95%
confidence interval, 11% to 51%) at 1 and 2 years, a value that was significantly
higher than that for group A (p less than 0.003) or group C (p less than 0.03).
The risk for dying suddenly with the first recurrence was 0.78 in group B, a
value that was significantly higher than that for group A (p less than 0.003) or 
group C (p less than 0.002).
CONCLUSION: The defibrillator is highly effective in preventing sudden death in
patients whose presenting arrhythmias caused loss of consciousness (group A). In 
patients whose presenting arrhythmias did not result in loss of consciousness
(group C), initial treatment with the defibrillator appears unnecessary.

PMID: 3662277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):616-23.

Complementarity of colestipol, niacin, and lovastatin in treatment of severe
familial hypercholesterolemia.

Malloy MJ(1), Kane JP, Kunitake ST, Tun P.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of California, San Francisco.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of the ternary-drug combination of
colestipol, niacin, and lovastatin with binary combinations of those drugs in
treating patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.
DESIGN: An open sequential study of serum lipoprotein responses in patients
receiving diet alone (mean duration, 4 months); colestipol and niacin with diet
(mean duration, 9 months); and colestipol, niacin, and lovastatin with diet (mean
duration, 15 months).
SETTING: Metabolic ward and lipid clinic of a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Twenty-two patients with clinical characteristics of familial
hypercholesterolemia (low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, greater than 8.48
mmol/L; 21 of 22 with tendon xanthomas).
INTERVENTIONS: Diet: less than 200 mg/d of cholesterol and less than 8% of total 
calories from saturated fat; colestipol, 30 g/d; lovastatin, 40 to 60 mg/d; and
niacin, 1.5 to 7.5 g/d.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean total serum cholesterol and
low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels of 4.86 +/- 0.62 mmol/L (188 +/- 24
mg/dL SD) and 2.89 +/- 0.54 mmol/L (112 +/- 21 mg/dL SD), respectively, were
significantly lower during ternary-drug treatment than during colestipol-niacin
treatment (p less than 0.003) or during treatment in which other possible binary 
combinations were given. The cholesterol content of very low-density-lipoproteins
was lower and high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels higher during this
phase than during the colestipol-niacin phase.
CONCLUSIONS: Colestipol, lovastatin, and niacin are mutually complementary in
treating hypercholesterolemia. This regimen produces reductions in serum
cholesterol levels similar to those associated with regression of atheromatous
plaques in animal studies.

PMID: 3662275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):609-15.

Lovastatin (mevinolin) in the treatment of heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia. A multicenter study.

Havel RJ(1), Hunninghake DB, Illingworth DR, Lees RS, Stein EA, Tobert JA, Bacon 
SR, Bolognese JA, Frost PH, Lamkin GE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, School of Medicine, University of California, 
San Francisco.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of lovastatin under
controlled conditions in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial.
SETTING: Five lipid clinics with a central laboratory and coordinating center.
PATIENTS: 101 adult patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were on a lipid-lowering diet throughout the study. After
a 4-week placebo baseline period, patients were randomized to five equal
treatment groups. Each group received a different sequence of placebo or
lovastatin 5 to 40 mg twice daily or 20 to 40 mg once daily in the evening,
during three consecutive 6-week periods.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The mean reductions in total plasma cholesterol
and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol across the dosage ranges were 14% to 34% 
and 17% to 39%, respectively (p compared with zero and placebo less than 0.01).
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoproteins AI and AII rose
slightly. Apolipoprotein B fell substantially at the higher dosage levels (-23%
at 40 mg twice daily, p less than 0.01), indicating a reduction in the
concentration of circulating low-density lipoprotein particles. Maximum response 
was achieved in 4 to 6 weeks. Twice-daily dosing was slightly more efficient than
once-daily dosing. Of those patients receiving 40 mg twice a day, 89% had a fall 
in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol of at least 20%, and 61% had a fall of at 
least 40%. Adverse effects attributable to lovastatin were minimal, and no
patient was withdrawn from the study.
CONCLUSION: Lovastatin was well tolerated and effective in the treatment of
familial hypercholesterolemia.

PMID: 3662274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):641-8.

Air-fluidized beds or conventional therapy for pressure sores. A randomized
trial.

Allman RM(1), Walker JM, Hart MK, Laprade CA, Noel LB, Smith CR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and adverse effects of
air-fluidized beds and conventional therapy for patients with pressure sores.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with both masked and unmasked comparisons of outcome
after a median follow-up of 13 days (range, 4 to 77 days).
SETTING: Urban, academic referral, and primary care medical center.
PATIENTS: Of 140 potentially eligible hospitalized patients with pressure sores, 
72 consented to randomization; 65 (90%) completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Thirty-one patients on air-fluidized beds (Clinitron Therapy,
Support Systems International, Inc., Charleston, South Carolina) repositioned
every 4 hours from 0700h to 2300h without use of other antipressure devices.
Thirty-four patients on conventional therapy used an alternating air-mattress
covered by a foam pad (Lapidus Air Float System, American Pharmaceal Company,
Cincinnati, Ohio) on a regular hospital bed; were repositioned every 2 hours; and
had elbow or heel pads as needed. Topical therapy was standardized for both
groups.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Pressure sores showed a median decrease in total
surface area (-1.2 cm2) on air-fluidized beds, but showed a median increase (+
0.5 cm2) on conventional therapy; 95% confidence interval (CI) for the difference
between medians, -9.2 to -0.6 cm2 (p = 0.01). Improvement, as assessed from
serial color photographs by investigators masked to treatment group, occurred in 
71% and 47%, respectively; 95% CI for the difference, 1% to 47% (p = 0.05). For
pressure sores 7.8 cm2 or greater, outcome differences between air-fluidized beds
and conventional therapy were greater: median total surface area change was -5.3 
and +4.0 cm2, respectively; 95% CI for the difference, -42.2 to -3.2 cm2 (p =
0.01). Improvement rates were 62% and 29% respectively; 95% CI for difference, 1%
to 65% (p = 0.05). After adjusting for other factors associated with sore
outcome, the estimated relative odds of showing improvement with air-fluidized
beds were 5.6-fold (95% CI, 1.4 to 21.7) greater than with conventional therapy
(p = 0.01). No significant increase in adverse effects was seen with
air-fluidized beds.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that air-fluidized beds are more effective than
conventional therapy, particularly for large pressure sores. Studies are needed
to determine the effectiveness of air-fluidized beds in long-term care settings.

PMID: 3310792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):628-35.

Ibuprofen interferes with the efficacy of antihypertensive drugs. A randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of ibuprofen compared with acetaminophen.

Radack KL(1), Deck CC, Bloomfield SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, University of Cincinnati,
Ohio.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of ibuprofen on blood pressure control in 
patients being treated with antihypertensive drugs.
DESIGN: Randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel trial of ibuprofen
compared with acetaminophen and with placebo in 3-week treatment periods.
SETTING: A general internal medicine clinic at a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Forty-five patients with essential hypertension controlled by treatment
with at least two antihypertensive drugs were enrolled. Of these, 41 completed
the study; treatment was discontinued in 3 of the 15 patients in the ibuprofen
group due to breakage of the drug capsules, and after randomization in 1 of the
14 patients in the placebo group due to unstable angina. All 15 patients in the
acetaminophen group completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: All previous antihypertensive regimens were continued. During the 
3-week treatment, ibuprofen, 400 mg, was administered orally every 8 hours;
acetaminophen, 1 g, orally every 8 hours; or placebo, 2 capsules, orally every 8 
hours.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the ibuprofen group, the mean increase from
baseline after 3 weeks of treatment was significant in the average supine
diastolic blood pressure (6.4 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.05 to 11.75;
p = 0.0239); supine mean arterial pressure (6.6 mm Hg; 95% CI, 1.25 to 11.95; p =
0.0205); and sitting mean arterial pressure (5.8 mm Hg; 95% CI, 1.57 to 10.04; p 
= 0.0123). The mean increase in blood pressure variables in the ibuprofen group
was significantly different compared with the mean increase in the variables in
the placebo group after 3 weeks of treatment: supine systolic blood pressure (7.1
mm Hg compared with -4.5 mm Hg; 95% CI for the difference in means, 2.5 to 20.6; 
p = 0.0133); supine diastolic pressure (6.4 mm Hg compared with 0.0; 95% CI for
difference in means, 0.87 to 12.4; p = 0.0250); supine mean arterial pressure
(6.6 mm Hg compared with -1.5; 95% CI for difference in means, 2.0 to 14.2; p =
0.0110); sitting systolic pressure (6.8 mm Hg compared with -3.7; 95% CI for
difference in means, 2.0 to 19.0; p = 0.0169); sitting diastolic pressure (5.3 mm
Hg compared with -1.1; 95% CI for difference in means, 0.76 to 12.1; p = 0.0273);
and sitting mean arterial pressure (5.8 mm Hg compared with -2.0; 95% CI for
difference in means, 1.5 to 14.1; p = 0.0169).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2889416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1987 Nov;10(2):145-9.

Continuous 5-fluorouracil infusion in refractory carcinoma of the breast.

Hansen R(1), Quebbeman E, Beatty P, Ritch P, Anderson T, Jenkins D, Frick J,
Ausman R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Twenty-five patients with refractory, metastatic carcinoma of the breast were
treated with continuous ambulatory 5-fluorouracil (5 FU) infusion (200 to 300
mg/m2/day) through a chronic indwelling central venous catheter. All patients had
had extensive previous treatment, including hormonal therapy in 20/25 patients
(80%), radiation therapy in 18/25 patients (72%), and an average of 4.6 previous 
chemotherapy drugs per patient (range 1-10). Twenty-three of 25 patients (92%)
had had previous bolus 5 FU. Seventeen of 25 patients (68%) had two or more
metastatic sites of involvement and 17/25 patients (68%) had visceral
involvement.RESULTS: complete remission-1/25 (4%), partial remission-7/25 (28%), 
stable disease-6/25 (24%), and progressive disease-11/25 (44%), for an overall
response rate of 8/25 (32%). Median duration of response was 6 months. Toxicities
included hand-foot syndrome, mucositis, diarrhea, and nausea and vomiting, and
required treatment interruption and/or dose attenuation in 9/25 patients (36%).
No myelosuppression or serious catheter-related problems were seen. We conclude
that continuous 5 FU infusion is a potentially effective salvage treatment that
may provide meaningful palliation in some patients with carcinoma of the breast, 
in spite of extensive previous treatment.

PMID: 3427223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Circulation. 1987 Nov;76(5):1037-42.

Isolated atrial septal defect with pulmonary vascular obstructive
disease--long-term follow-up and prediction of outcome after surgical correction.

Steele PM(1), Fuster V, Cohen M, Ritter DG, McGoon DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of 
New York, New York.

We examined the cases of 702 patients found to have isolated atrial septal defect
of the secundum or sinus venosus type at catheterization from 1953 to 1978. Forty
patients (6%), 34 women and six men, had pulmonary vascular obstructive disease, 
with a total pulmonary resistance greater than 7 U/m2; of these patients 26 (mean
age 47 years) underwent surgical closure and 14 (mean age 44 years) received
medical treatment. All patients were followed for at least 4 years, with a median
follow-up of 12 years. At the most recent follow-up, 17 of the 40 patients were
dead. Of the 22 surgically treated patients with total pulmonary resistance less 
than 15 U/m2, 19 were alive with significant regression of symptoms. All four
surgically treated patients with total pulmonary resistance greater than or equal
to 15 U/m2 were dead. Of the five medically treated patients with total pulmonary
resistance less than 15 U/m2, four had died, and one was alive with significant
progression of symptoms. Of the nine medically treated patients with total
pulmonary resistance greater than or equal to 15 U/m2, six had died and the three
survivors had progression of symptoms. In the surgically treated group, the
following variables correlated with survival: total pulmonary resistance (p less 
than .00001), pulmonary arteriolar resistance (p less than .00001),
pulmonary-to-systemic resistance ratio (p = .004), systemic arterial oxygen
saturation (p = .005), and pulmonary arterial oxygen saturation (p = .007).IN
CONCLUSION: (1) Atrial septal defect with high total pulmonary resistance is
uncommon and predominates in adult female patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 3664992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Dig Dis Sci. 1987 Nov;32(11):1217-22.

Effect of barium meals on gastric electromechanical activity in man. A
fluoroscopic-electrogastrographic study.

Koch KL(1), Stewart WR, Stern RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Pennsylvania State University, Hershey 17033.

The relationship between the cutaneously recorded electrogastrogram (EGG) and
gastric contractions in man is unclear. We investigated: (1) the relationship
between the electrogastrogram (EGG) signals and gastric contractions elicited by 
barium meals and (2) the effects of barium meals on frequency and amplitude of
EGG signals. As documented by fluoroscopy in four healthy subjects, barium meals 
stimulated three per minute gastric peristalsis which corresponded with
simultaneously recorded three cycle per minute (cpm) EGG waves. Eighteen other
healthy volunteers ingested 45% (w/v) or 60% barium suspensions. As determined by
Fourier analysis, the dominant EGG frequency before barium was 3 cpm in 16
subjects; two subjects had no distinct frequency peaks. After barium ingestion,
the mean amplitude or power at 3 cpm and 1 cpm increased, but the increase was
significant only after 45% barium.IN CONCLUSION: (1) individual EGG waves after
barium reflect gastric peristaltic sequences, which are reflected in increases in
amplitude or power of 3 cpm EGG activity; (2) density or viscosity of the barium 
meal affects the gastric myoelectric response; and (3) mechanical correlates of 1
cpm EEG activity are unknown.

PMID: 3665676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Doc Ophthalmol. 1987 Nov;67(3):263-72.

Surface area sized of intravitreal iron wires: their effects on the
electroretinograms of rats.

Schmidt JG(1), Max M.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Köln, FRG.

The electroretinogram (ERG) was recorded 20 times over a period of 360 days in 26
albino-rats with implanted intravitreal iron wires ranging in size between 0.15
and 1.2 mm2.RESULTS: (i) The a- and b-wave amplitudes decreased rapidly within
one day after iron wire implantation. During the following week the amplitudes
recovered to some extent. In the course of the next few months the a- and b-wave 
amplitudes of the eyes implanted with the largest iron wires (1.2 mm2) decreased 
steadily to about 20% by the end of the observation time, whereas in the groups
containing smaller iron wires the electroretinographic changes were limited. (ii)
Implantation of equally-sized glass splinters reduced the a- and b-wave
amplitudes to 65-75% in comparison to the intact fellow eye. Fast recovery of
both potentials to 83-93% followed within two weeks. The mean values of the
a-wave amplitudes reached nearly 100%, those of the b-wave 90-95% in the next
month.

PMID: 3447851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1987 Nov;14(11):3119-24.

[Intra-operative administration of neocarzinostatin into the duodenal subserosa
and levels found in the regional lymph nodes in pancreato-duodenal cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Hase Y(1), Kondo T, Nakagawa H, Matsumoto T, Maekawa T, Sakakibara N.

Author information: 
(1)1st Dept. of Surgery, School of Medicine, Juntendo University.

As an intraoperative chemotherapy treatment for the regional lymph nodes in
resectable cases of pancreatoduodenal cancer, Neocarzinostatin (NCS) was
administered in the duodenal subserosa and the NCS concentration was measured in 
the resected lymph nodes.EXPERIMENTS: NCS 4,000 units (n = 4), or 10,000 units (n
= 4) was administered into the duodenal subserosa of mongrel dogs, and 2 hours
after administration, the lymph nodes of the mesentery root were resected. The
NCS concentration in the lymph nodes was 0.21 U/g in the 4,000-U group and 1.39
U/g in the 10,000-U group.
CLINICAL FINDINGS: NCS 10,000 U was administered into the duodenal subserosa in 6
cases of pancreatoduodenal cancer. The total number of resected lymph nodes was
49 and the mean NCS concentration was 5.65 U/g. According to site, the highest
concentration was measured in lymph nodes from the anterior and posterior region 
of the pancreas head, which were near to the administration site. Also, NCS was
well distributed in the lymph nodes in the hepatoduodenal ligament and mesentery 
root which lay in the direction of lymph flow. NCS concentration was high in
lymph nodes resected 1 hour after administration. According to experimental
reports of in vitro studies, an NCS concentration of more than 0.5 U/g is
required to obtain an anticancer effect. This method is therefore considered to
be useful as a form of intraoperative chemotherapy for the regional lymph nodes
in pancreatoduodenal cancer.

PMID: 2960268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Pediatr Med Chir. 1987 Nov-Dec;9(6):699-701.

[Ability of patients with type 1 diabetes in estimating their own blood glucose
levels].

[Article in Italian]

Pocecco M(1), De Campo C, Floreanini C, Cantoni L.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Pediatrica dell'Università, Trieste, Italia.

This study was designed to assess the accuracy of self fasting blood sugar (FBG) 
estimation in young patients with IDOM, and to determine whether intensive self
monitoring of FBG would improve the accuracy of blood sugar estimation. 37
subjects (11-19 years old, diabetics from 1 to 12 years) were studied during a 9 
days educative diabetic camp. Patients were asked to guess their FBG immediately 
before it was analyzed with a Glucometer. The correlation between actual and
estimated glycemia was 0.625 (p less than 0.01). The percent-error of estimation 
actual FBG--estimated FBG/actual FBG x 100 was within 30% in 55% of determination
(523). There was a significant positive correlation between the absolute error of
estimation and the duration of IDDM (r = -0.29; p less than 0.026) and the day of
measurements (r = -0.27; p less than 0.05), but not the age of children, HbAlc
levels and the hour of determination. The absolute error progressively reduced
during the camp: the mean value was 62.50 +/- 55.37 mg% (n = 34) in the first
day, 26.52 +/- 17.99 (n = 24) (t = 2.82; p less than 0.01) in the last day. 4
patients, in 5 estimations failed to discriminate hyperglycemia (estimated FBG
less than 50 mg% versus actual FBG greater than 100 mg%) and 6 patients in 17
estimations failed to discriminate hypoglycemia (estimated FBG greater than 100
mg% versus actual FBG less than 50 mg%).CONCLUSIONS: in our study diabetic
patients are accurate in guessing their FBG. They nearly always identified
hyperglycemia but not always hypoglycemia. An intensive self monitoring of FBG
improves the accuracy of FBG self estimation.

PMID: 3444743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Regul Pept. 1987 Nov;19(3-4):253-63.

The effects of substance P, histamine and histamine antagonists on somatostatin
and gastrin release from the isolated perfused rat stomach.

McIntosh CH(1), Bakich V, Kwok YN, Wong J, Brown JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Secretion of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SLI) from the isolated perfused 
rat stomach has been shown to be inhibited by substance P. The present study was 
initiated to examine the possibility that this action of substance P was mediated
via release of histamine. Substance P (1 microM) reduced basal secretion of SLI
in agreement with earlier studies. Neither pyrilamine nor cimetidine influenced
this action. Basal immunoreactive gastrin (IRG) secretion was unaffected by
substance P. Addition of pyrilamine during substance P perfusion increased IRG
secretion whereas addition of cimetidine resulted in a delayed decrease on
removal of both compounds. Histamine (1 and 10 microM) increased SLI secretion
and reduced IRG secretion. Pyrilamine increased and cimetidine decreased IRG
secretion but neither drug influenced SLI secretion. Pyrilamine had no effect on 
histamine-stimulated SLI secretion but inhibition of IRG secretion by histamine
was converted to stimulation. Cimetidine potentiated histamine stimulation of SLI
secretion and inhibition of IRG secretion.IN CONCLUSION: (1) substance P
inhibition of SLI secretion is unlikely to be mediated via release of histamine. 
(2) The gastrin cell appears to have both H1- and H2-receptors which mediate
opposite actions but H1-receptor-mediated inhibition is predominant. (3)
Histamine weakly stimulates SLI secretion but there may be both inhibitory and
stimulatory pathways acting via H2- and H1-receptors, respectively.

PMID: 2448848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1987 Oct;116(2):221-8.

The role of opiate, dopaminergic, and adrenergic systems in the
hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction in obesity.

Baranowska B(1), Singh SP, Soszynski P, Nowakowski J, Jeske W.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology Clinic, Medical Centre of Postgraduate Education, Warwaw, Poland.

In order to evaluate the role of opiate, dopaminergic and adrenergic systems in
the mechanism of hypothalamo-pituitary disturbances in obesity, 9 obese women and
14 healthy women were investigated. Serum GH, LH, beta-endorphin and cortisol
concentrations were measured after administration of clonidine, an alpha
2-adrenergic receptor agonist, and naloxone, an opiate antagonist. Additionally, 
PRL levels were measured after administration of the dopamine receptor blocker
metoclopramide. An impaired GH response to clonidine and naloxone was found in
obese women. However, a marked increase in beta-endorphin was observed in obese
patients after clonidine administration. Naloxone did not cause any significant
change in beta-endorphin release. Neither clonidine nor naloxone induced any
change in LH release. Serum PRL concentrations in response to metoclopramide were
significantly higher in obese patients than in healthy women.IN CONCLUSION:
Disturbed activity in opiate, adrenergic, and dopaminergic systems may be of
pathogenetic importance in a hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction in obesity. The
occurrence of hypothalamic amenorrhoea as well as the presence of abnormalities
of the central nervous system regulation of GH, PRL, ACTH, cortisol, insulin and 
vasopressin output might point to a generalized hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction
in obesity.

PMID: 2889310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Anaesthesist. 1987 Oct;36(10):577-81.

[How valuable for prognosis is the perioperative assessment of serum creatinine
values with reference to postoperative renal complications in risk patients?].

[Article in German]

Kröll W(1), List WF.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Klinik für Anaesthesiologie, Graz.

Renal function is not considered to be as important as cardiovascular or
respiratory function during the perioperative period. Nevertheless, recent
studies demonstrate a significant correlation between preoperative levels of
creatinine and postoperative disturbances of kidney function.METHOD AND RESULTS: 
In a retrospective study 250 patients with the ASA physical status classification
III and IV were investigated. All patients had a preoperative creatinine level
greater than 1.0 mg/dl. For further investigations patients were divided into two
groups; group I consisted of patients with preoperative creatinine level of
1.0-1.19 mg/dl; group II patients had preoperative creatinine levels greater than
1.2 mg/dl. Postoperatively these parameters were monitored on the 1st, 3rd and
5th days. A deterioration of renal function was seen postoperatively in all high 
risk patients (Tables 3, 4). Group II patients showed significant changes in
kidney function on the 3rd and 5th postoperative days (p less than 0.005). During
the study period the creatinine levels in this group did not return to normal
values. In this group four patients suffered acute postoperative kidney failure, 
and two of these died.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: In a recent study Hou et al. [5] could show that 5% of
all patients suffer renal insufficiency during their hospital stay. Mortality for
acquired renal failure is still 40-70%. The most important factor in the
development of disturbances of kidney function is pre-existing kidney disease.
The patients investigated in this study were high-risk patients. Cardiovascular
complications during the perioperative phase are common, and hemodynamically
mediated renal failure is the most frequent form of kidney failure.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3688413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Anaesthesist. 1987 Oct;36(10):541-7.

[Comparative hemodynamic study of anesthesia induction with propofol (Diprivan), 
thiopental, methohexital, etomidate and midazolam in patients with coronary
disease].

[Article in German]

Kling D(1), Laubenthal H, Börner U, Boldt J, Hempelmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Anaesthesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin,
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen.

In patients undergoing cardiac surgery, the induction of anesthesia is not
without risk because of specific cardiovascular effects of the anesthetic and the
preoperative state of the patient. The hemodynamic effects of etomidate,
midazolam, thiopental, and methohexital are well known: etomidate is an
anesthetic that induces only minor cardiovascular changes; its influence on the
endocrine system, however, has reduced its clinical indication. Barbiturates such
as thiopental and methohexital produce negative inotropic effects in combination 
with an increase in heart rate and myocardial oxygen consumption; midazolam
reduces pre- and afterload in patients with poor left ventricular function.
Propofol, a new short-acting induction agent with good anesthetic properties, is 
said to diminish arterial pressure as well as myocardial oxygen
consumption.METHODS: In a randomized study we investigated the hemodynamic
effects of intravenous induction with propofol (2 mg/kg body wt.), thiopental (5 
mg/kg), methohexital (1 mg/kg), etomidate (0.3 mg/kg), and midazolam (0.15 mg/kg)
in 50 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. All patients were
premedicated with flunitrazepam (0.03 mg/kg up to 2 mg) and morphine
hydrochloride (0.2 mg/kg up to 15 mg) 100 min before the investigation. After
0.003 mg/kg fentanyl the patients received the induction agent in the
above-mentioned dosage within 40 s followed by 0.1 mg/kg pancuronium bromide.
Hemodynamic measurements were performed 1, 3, and 5 min after the end of the
injection as well as 1 and 5 min after intubation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 3318546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):569-74.

Computerized display of past test results. Effect on outpatient testing.

Tierney WM, McDonald CJ, Martin DK, Rogers MP.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of displaying previous results of
diagnostic tests on the ordering of selected outpatient tests.
DESIGN: Sixteen-week controlled trial with a 13-week pre-intervention and 8-week 
post-intervention observation periods. Patients were randomly assigned to
intervention or control groups so that each physician was his or her own control.
Only scheduled visits were included. Randomization occurred before the
pre-intervention observation period.
SETTING: Academic primary care general medicine clinic affiliated with an urban
general hospital.
SUBJECTS: Pre-intervention period: 111 physicians (97 internal medicine
residents, 14 faculty internists), 4683 patients, 5942 scheduled visits.
INTERVENTION period: same 111 physicians, 5946 patients, 8148 visits.
Post-intervention period: 76 physicians (62 residents, 14 faculty), 2571
patients, 2858 scheduled visits.
INTERVENTION: With an order for one of eight selected diagnostic tests through
microcomputer workstations, a window was opened on the screen and previous test
results were displayed along with the time interval between the first and last
result. Tests were ordered for control patients into the same workstations
without previous results displayed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Previous results of one or more study tests were
available for display for 96% of scheduled patients. Significantly lower results 
(p less than 0.05 by paired t-test) for the selected tests were found for
intervention patient visits than for control visits: charges per visit (mean +/- 
SE) for intervention patients $12.17 +/- 0.62, compared with $13.99 +/- 0.77 for 
controls, a 13.0% difference; tests per visit were 0.51 +/- 0.03, compared with
0.56 +/- 0.03, an 8.5% difference. The number of study tests ordered decreased
significantly for intervention patients (16.8%) and for controls (10.9%). During 
the post-intervention period, ordering of study tests increased for both groups, 
but the increase from the intervention period was not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Presenting physicians with previous test results reduced the
ordering of those tests. The actual effect may have been greater than 13%,
because there were reductions in study tests ordered for both intervention and
control patients during the intervention period when compared with the
pre-intervention period, and both tended to rise after the intervention, or
display, was turned off.

PMID: 3631792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):495-8.

Inhaled or reduced-dose intravenous pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia. A pilot study.

Conte JE Jr, Hollander H, Golden JA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate inhaled or reduced-dose intravenous pentamidine for 
the treatment of patients with mild Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
DESIGN: Open, nonrandomized pilot study; measurement of pentamidine
concentrations in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.
PATIENTS: Of 22 men with mild P. carinii pneumonia (PO2 greater than or equal to 
55 mm Hg), 15 (9 in the inhaled group and 6 in the intravenous group) received
treatment for their first episode and 7 for a repeat episode.
INTERVENTIONS: Pentamidine isethionate, 4 mg/kg body weight by inhalation, or 3
mg/kg intravenously, was given once daily, as long as clinically indicated.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 13 patients in the inhaled group, 9 has a
satisfactory response; and of the 10 in the reduced-dose intravenous group, 9 had
a satisfactory response. Major adverse reactions occurred in two patients in each
group. Three patients in the inhaled group appeared to have had early relapses.
Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid concentrations of pentamidine ranged between 16.8
+/- 7.3 ng/mL and 149.7 +/- 38.2 ng/mL in the inhaled group and 3.4 +/- 0.2 ng/mL
and 10.9 ng/mL in the intravenous group.
CONCLUSIONS: Inhaled or reduced-dose intravenous pentamidine may be an effective 
and less toxic therapy for mild P. carinii pneumonia. These regimens are not
recommended for general use until larger controlled trials are conducted.

PMID: 3498418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):499-502.

Treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with isotretinoin.

Lippman SM, Meyskens FL Jr.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of oral isotretinoin in refractory
advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
DESIGN: Case series trial.
SETTING: Tertiary care center at a university hospital.
PATIENTS: A consecutive collection of four patients with advanced squamous cell
carcinoma of the skin who failed to respond to standard surgical or radiation
therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Isotretinoin in gelatin capsules was given at a total daily dose
of 1 mg/kg body weight in two divided doses for at least 4 weeks.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Bidimensional tumor measurements at monthly
intervals showed striking responses to isotretinoin in all four patients.
Response durations ranged from 2 to more than 23 months. The drug produced
reversible moderate mucocutaneous side effects and asymptomatic laboratory
abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS: Impressive responses to isotretinoin occurred in our four patients
and in six of ten other reported patients. Retinoic acid's mechanisms of action
in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma is not precisely known, but may involve the 
modulation of epidermal growth factor receptors and certain protein kinases.
These in-vitro findings and the clinical data suggest that retinoids may be an
effective and well-tolerated therapy for refractory advanced squamous cell
carcinoma of the skin. The absence of any other effective systemic therapy
indicates the need for continuing trials with retinoids in this disease.

PMID: 3477106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):441-5.

Adjusted subcutaneous heparin or continuous intravenous heparin in patients with 
acute deep vein thrombosis. A randomized trial.

Doyle DJ, Turpie AG, Hirsh J, Best C, Kinch D, Levine MN, Gent M.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and safety of adjusted subcutaneous
calcium heparin compared with continuous intravenous calcium heparin as the
initial treatment for acute deep vein thrombosis.
DESIGN: Randomized control trial.
SETTING: University-affiliated general hospital.
PATIENTS: Of 111 consecutive patients considered, 103 had acute proximal or calf 
vein thrombosis confirmed by ascending venography and met all other eligibility
criteria.
INTERVENTIONS: PATIENTS were randomly assigned to receive subcutaneous or
intravenous heparin. The subcutaneous regimen consisted of an initial dose of
15,000 U, adjusted thereafter to prolong the activated partial thromboplastin
time to 50 to 70 seconds. The continuous intravenous regimen was begun as a bolus
injection of 5000 U, followed by an infusion of 1250 U/h, adjusted to maintain
the activated partial thromboplastin time at 50 to 70 seconds.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the rate of
new pulmonary embolism between the two groups, as defined by new high-probability
defect on repeat ventilation-perfusion scintigrams of the lung in 96 (93%) of the
patients after 7 to 10 days of treatment. Five of forty-seven patients in the
subcutaneous group and 5 of 49 in the intravenous group developed pulmonary
embolism (95% confidence interval [CI] for the difference, -13.1% to 12.2%).
Similarly, there was no significant difference in the frequency of hemorrhagic
complications. Five of fifty-one patients in the subcutaneous group and 5 of 52
in the intravenous group had hemorrhagic complications (95% CI for the
difference, -11.2% to 11.6%).
CONCLUSION: Adjusted subcutaneous calcium heparin may be an effective and safe
alternative to continuous intravenous calcium heparin in the initial treatment of
acute proximal deep vein thrombosis.

PMID: 3307582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):459-65.

Intrahepatic or systemic infusion of fluorodeoxyuridine in patients with liver
metastases from colorectal carcinoma. A randomized trial.

Kemeny N, Daly J, Reichman B, Geller N, Botet J, Oderman P.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of direct hepatic arterial chemotherapy with
systemic chemotherapy in patients with liver metastases from colorectal
carcinoma.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with crossover allowed from systemic to intrahepatic
therapy if tumor progression occurred on systemic therapy.
SETTING: Academic medical center, referral-based clinic.
PATIENTS: One hundred sixty-two patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal 
carcinoma agreed to be randomly assigned to treatment groups. At laparotomy, 63
were excluded from the study: 25 had hepatic resection; 33, extrahepatic disease;
1, infection; and 4, no tumor.
INTERVENTION: Fourteen-day continuous infusion of fluorodeoxyuridine each month
using an infusaid pump (0.3 and 0.15 mg/kg body weight X d in the intrahepatic
and systemic arms, respectively).
MAIN RESULTS: Intrahepatic therapy produced a significantly higher complete and
partial response rate, 50%, compared with 20% for systemic therapy (p = 0.001).
After tumor progression, 60% of the systemic patients crossed over to
intrahepatic therapy; 25% then had a partial response, and 33% a minor response
or stabilization of disease on intrahepatic therapy. Toxicity included ulcer
disease (17%) and biliary sclerosis (8%) in patients receiving intrahepatic
therapy and diarrhea (70%) in patients receiving systemic therapy. Extrahepatic
disease occurred in 56% and 37% of the patients in the intrahepatic and systemic 
groups, respectively (p = 0.092). The median survivals were 17 and 12 months, for
the intrahepatic and systemic groups, respectively.
CONCLUSION: When compared with systemic therapy, hepatic arterial chemotherapy
significantly increases response rate for hepatic metastases from colorectal
carcinoma and appears to be a more effective treatment.

PMID: 2957943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Endocrinology. 1987 Oct;121(4):1531-9.

The rat posterior pituitary contains a potent prolactin-releasing factor: studies
with perifused anterior pituitary cells.

Hyde JF(1), Murai I, Ben-Jonathan N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis 46223.

We previously reported that removal of the posterior pituitary abolished the
suckling-induced rise in plasma PRL. This suggested that the posterior pituitary 
contains a PRL-releasing factor (PRF). Using perifused anterior pituitary cells, 
the objectives of this study were 1) to examine whether the posterior pituitary
contains PRF activity as compared to the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH), and 2) 
to determine to what extent substances known to be present in the posterior
pituitary and/or MBH contribute to this activity. Anterior pituitary cells,
attached to Cytodex beads, were perifused with medium 199. Tissues were extracted
with acid, lyophilized, and reconstituted in medium 199. Tissue extracts and
synthetic compounds were introduced to the cells in short pulses. Fractions were 
collected and analyzed for PRL, LH, and GH by RIA. Posterior pituitary extracts
contained a potent substance(s) which stimulated PRL release in a
concentration-dependent manner, but did not alter LH secretion. As little as 1%
of the extract increased PRL release. In contrast, the MBH extract contained
significantly less PRF activity but was capable of stimulating and inhibiting LH 
and GH release, respectively. Cerebellar extracts did not alter PRL secretion. Of
more than 25 neuroactive substances tested in the perifusion system, oxytocin,
TRH, and angiotensin II (A II) appeared as likely candidates for PRF. Therefore, 
the specific receptor antagonists d(CH2)5Tyr(Me) ornithine vasotocin (for
oxytocin), chlordiazepoxide (for TRH), or saralasin (for A II) were infused
together with the posterior pituitary extract. These antagonists completely
abolished the PRL-releasing activities of their respective peptides but failed to
reduce the PRF activity of the posterior pituitary. In contrast, PRF activity in 
the MBH was nearly eliminated by the TRH antagonist.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The rat
posterior pituitary contains a potent PRF capable of inducing a rapid,
hormone-specific, concentration-dependent stimulation of PRL release from
perifused anterior pituitary cells. 2) The MBH contains significantly less PRF
activity, which is largely attributable to TRH. 3) Although the chemical identity
of PRF is yet unknown, the PRF activity in the posterior pituitary is not
accounted for by oxytocin, TRH, or A II.

PMID: 2888647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. G Ital Cardiol. 1987 Oct;17(10):823-9.

[Role of myocardial scintigraphy with thallium-201 in the characterization of
episodes of transient ischemia at rest. Clinical and electrocardiographic
correlates].

[Article in Italian]

Marcassa C(1), Parodi O, Marzullo P, Neglia D, Fontana A, Severi S, L'Abbate A.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Fisiologia Clinica del CNR, Università degli Studi di Pisa.

In the past ten years we studied 80 patients with angina at rest by 201-Thallium 
perfusion scintigraphy. According to ECG changes during episodes of transient
ischemia at rest, the patients were divided into three groups. Thirty six
patients showed transient ST segment elevation (Group 1); 33 ST segment
depression (Group 2) and 11 normalization of negative T waves (Group 3). 201-TI
scintigraphy was performed during spontaneous or ergonovine induced episodes of
ischemia and at redistribution. Group 1 showed localized and severe perfusion
defects, well correlated to the site of ECG changes. Group 2 showed more diffuse 
and less severe perfusion defects, less correlated to the site of ECG changes.
Group 3 showed perfusion defects similar to those observed in Group 1 and
associated in 54% with basal perfusion defects due to previous myocardial
infarction.IN CONCLUSION: A) three main perfusion patterns are associated with
the three types of ECG changes; B) relative to ECG, myocardial scintigraphy
provides a more accurate definition of the site and extension of ischemia,
particularly in Group 2 patients.

PMID: 3436494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. In Vitro Cell Dev Biol. 1987 Oct;23(10):686-90.

GH3 cell secretion of growth hormone and prolactin increases spontaneously during
perifusion.

Lapp CA(1), Stachura ME, Tyler JM, Lee YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 30910.

GH3 cell secretory activity was studied in long-term perifusion to define
previously reported spontaneous increases in growth hormone (GH) and prolactin
production (PRL). Mechanically harvested cells (1 X 10(7)/column) were perifused 
at 4 ml/h for 72 h. A basal period of variable duration (8 to 12 h), during which
hormone secretion was stable, was followed by steadily increasing secretion
rates. Changes in cell number were not sufficient to account for increased
hormone secretion rates: a) there was no significant change in cell count after
72 h (0.97 +/- 0.03 X 10(7); n = 18); b) mean cell column DNA content increased
25.5% above the base value, whereas GH secretion rose 385% and PRL rose 178% (n =
5). Observed differences in the duration of the basal secretion period, the basal
secretory rate, and the magnitude of secretory rate increase were associated with
several variables: a) variability within a subline was a function of passage
number: GH secretion decreased and PRL secretion increased with subculture
number; b) cells with identical lot and freeze numbers, but received at different
times, behaved differently; c) the presence of an antifungal agent (nystatin)
altered hormone secretion reproducibly.CONCLUSIONS: a) rates of GH and PRL
secretion rise spontaneously in perifusion without a proportional increase in GH3
cell number; b) fluctuations in the rate of GH3 cell secretion of GH and PRL are 
not entirely random but are determined by several definable variables.

PMID: 3667488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. J Am Coll Nutr. 1987 Oct;6(5):375-84.

Permissive role of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids on carbohydrate oxidation in
human infant skin fibroblasts: one possible mechanism of their intervention on
coronary heart disease and diabetes.

Loriette C(1), Vignikin R, Lapous D, Wolfrom C, Polini G, Gautier M, Raulin J.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris 7, Laboratoire Biologie Cellulaire, France.

Many publications indicate the beneficial effect of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty
acids (n-6 PUFAs) in the control of coronary heart disease and diabetes, although
the mechanism is not clear. Some of our previous results suggest that, in
contrast to other lipids, n-6 PUFAs could have a permissive effect on
carbohydrate oxidation. To check this hypothesis, we determined pyruvate
dehydrogenase (PDH, decarboxylase: EC 1.2.4.1) activity in infant skin
fibroblasts (ISF) incubated 6 hours in the presence of 0.25 mM linoleic (LI) or
arachidonic (AR) acid, compared to oleic acid (OL) and control ISF incubated
without addition of fatty acids. The four groups of cells were preincubated 36
hours either in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS), or in the presence of
lipoprotein-deprived serum (LPDS).RESULTS: (1) When the ISF were maintained in
the medium containing FBS, the two PUFAs had little inhibitory effect on PDH
activity, in contrast with the effect of OL. (2) When the ISF were kept in the
lipoprotein-deficient medium, PDH activity was low in controls and in the OL
cells, but the addition of LI or AR increased the activity. This suggests the
role of n-6 PUFAs in enhancing carbohydrate oxidation, under certain conditions.

PMID: 3655160  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Respir Care. 1987 Oct;32(10):859-64.

Results of a prospective trial of strategies for improving oxygen utilization.

Zibrak JD, Sommerville J, O'Donnell C.

We prospectively investigated strategies for assuring that oxygen was provided to
patients hospitalized in our institution, according to standard indications (Blue
Cross/Blue Shield Medical Necessity Guidelines).METHOD: After a baseline
observation period (Phase I) during which no specific interventions were made,
therapists were informed that appropriate oxygen utilization was an
administrative goal and a department priority, and intensive instruction and case
review were provided by the Technical and Medical Directors (Phase II). In Phase 
III, therapists were encouraged to continue to assure that guidelines were met,
but instruction, discussion, and review ceased, and the Technical Director
assumed responsibility for all oxygen therapy decisions. Finally, all concerted
policing activity by the Technical Director ceased (Phase IV).
RESULTS: The total number of patients and percentage of patients with no
indications for therapy fell progressively through Phases II and III and returned
almost to baseline after policing activities were discontinued in Phase IV.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that it is unlikely that any department can sustain the
educational and supervisory input necessary to assure optimal conformance to
published standards for oxygen therapy when all members are involved. Therefore, 
assigning one qualified person to manage oxygen therapy may be more successful
than other approaches. Requiring all therapists to monitor conformance to
standards for low-flow oxygen therapy is time consuming and less effective and
limits the time that can be spent caring for patients with problems that respond 
favorably to other forms of respiratory therapy.

PMID: 10315741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1987 Oct 1;42(19):556-9.

[Value of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in assessing therapeutic success in
small cell bronchial cancer].

[Article in German]

Anger G(1), von Paris V, Senf L.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin, Medizinischen Akademie Erfurt.

The determination of the carcino-embryonal antigen (CEA) for the assessment of
the therapeutic success and course in colorectal tumours is at present an
established diagnostic method. In other solid tumours, e.g. in bronchial
carcinomas, the therapy monitoring by means of CEA was less tested. 92 Patients
were examined, 31 of them with limited disease (l. d.) and 61 with extensive
disease (e. d.). The determination of the CEA was performed before and during the
combined radiation therapy and polychemotherapy with 2 different protocols of
treatment: ACO (adriblastin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide), FOMC (5-fluoruracil,
methotrexate, vincristine, cyclophosphamide) with the OPIDI-radioimmunoassay.
Normal values: 0-10 micrograms/l. Limiting area: 11-20 micrograms/l. Pathological
area: greater than 20 micrograms/l.RESULTS: patients with limited disease: 8
normal, 14 in the limiting area, 9 in the pathological area (29%). Patients with 
extensive disease: 17 normal, 19 in the limiting area, 25 in the pathological
area (42%) before the beginning of the therapy. With 54 and 60 micrograms/l,
respectively, the mean values of the two groups, however, did not differ
significantly. Altogether 39 of the 92 patients examined (42%) showed changes of 
the CEA-values during the course of the disease. For the 31 patients with limited
disease 26 (84%) achieved a CR. Of these 26 patients the CEA-values were
increased in 7 patients, 5 of them showed a clear decrease, in 3 patients a
normalization of the CEA appeared with further existing remission, which lasts
for 28, 24 and 14 months. In the remaining 2 patients in the CEA-values decreased
into the limiting area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2827397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Am J Cardiol. 1987 Sep 1;60(7):596-601.

The resetting response of ventricular tachycardia to single and double
extrastimuli: implications for an excitable gap.

Stamato NJ, Rosenthal ME, Almendral JM, Josephson ME.

To evaluate the influence of local tissue refractoriness and delay in intervening
tissue on the ability of single ventricular extrastimuli to reset and
characterize a resetting response pattern in ventricular tachycardia (VT), single
ventricular extrastimuli were delivered during 81 VTs and double ventricular
extrastimuli in 45 of the 81 VTs. Resetting of VT was recognized as a less than
fully compensatory pause after stimulation and was seen in 43 of 81 VTs (53%)
with single ventricular extrastimuli and 35 of 45 (78%) with double ventricular
extrastimuli. Double ventricular extrastimuli reset 16 VTs not reset by single
ventricular extrastimuli. The return cycle, the interval from the extrastimulus
to the first VT beat after extrastimuli, has 1 of 3 distinct response patterns:
flat, increasing, and flat plus increasing. In 19 VTs, resetting was seen with
both single ventricular extrastimuli and double ventricular extrastimuli; 4 flat 
responses with single ventricular extrastimuli became flat plus increasing with
double ventricular extrastimuli. All other patterns were unchanged. In the 19 VTs
reset by both single and double ventricular extrastimuli, the estimate of both
the total reset zone (94 +/- 36 vs 56 +/- 32 ms) and the flat portion of the
reset zone (52 +/- 42 vs 42 +/- 28 ms) was significantly longer with double
ventricular extrastimuli (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.02,
respectively).IN CONCLUSION: (1) when single ventricular extrastimuli failed to
reset a VT, double ventricular extrastimuli from the same site may reset the VT.

PMID: 3630943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Sep;107(3):305-9.

Aminophylline for acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A
controlled trial.

Rice KL, Leatherman JW, Duane PG, Snyder LS, Harmon KR, Abel J, Niewoehner DE.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of intravenous aminophylline in the
treatment of patients hospitalized for exacerbation of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial during the first 72
hours of hospitalization.
PATIENTS: Thirty patients admitted from the emergency room or walk-in clinic with
the primary diagnosis of an exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. Twenty-eight patients completed the study; 2 patients, 1 receiving
placebo and 1 receiving aminophylline, were removed from the study because of
respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTIONS: PATIENTS received either intravenous aminophylline or placebo, in 
addition to nebulized, inhaled 0.3 mL of a 5% solution every 6 hours;
methylprednisolone, 0.5 mg/kg body weight every 6 hours intravenously;
ampicillin, 500 mg orally every 6 hours (tetracycline or
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole were substituted in penicillin-allergic patients); 
and supplemental oxygen as needed. Aminophylline infusion rates were adjusted by 
an unblinded investigator to achieve theophylline levels of 72 to 83 mumol/L.
Changes were also made in placebo infusion rates to maintain the double-blind
design.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) 
and forced vital capacity (FVC) before and after metaproterenol inhalation were
measured twice daily by a blinded investigator, who also administered a verbal
dyspnea index with a scale of 1 to 10 and questioned patients regarding possible 
side effects of treatment (tremor, palpitations, nausea, or vomiting). Arterial
blood gas measurements at 72 hours were compared with those obtained on
admission. Significant improvements in FEV1 and FVC measured before and after
metaproterenol treatment and in dyspnea occurred over time in both treatment
groups (p less than 0.05 for all measurements). However, there were no
significant differences between the placebo and aminophylline groups in any of
the spirometric measurements or the dyspnea indices (p greater than 0.5 in all
five analyses). The mean increases (+/- SE) in Po2 of 1.9 (+/- 0.5) kPa with
placebo and 1.7 (+/- 0.7) kPa with aminophylline and the mean decreases in PCO2
of 0.5 (+/- 0.4) kPa with placebo and 1.2 (+/- 0.4) kPa with aminophylline were
not significantly different (p greater than 0.6 for PO2, p greater than 0.2 for
PCO2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3619219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Sep;107(3):293-300.

The neuropsychiatric effects of treatment with interleukin-2 and
lymphokine-activated killer cells.

Denicoff KD, Rubinow DR, Papa MZ, Simpson C, Seipp CA, Lotze MT, Chang AE,
Rosenstein D, Rosenberg SA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the neuropsychiatric manifestations of therapy with
interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells.
DESIGN: Longitudinal survey of consecutive patients who were given the treatment.
Each patient was initially interviewed within 5 days before treatment, and a
personal and family psychiatric history was obtained during this first session.
Cognitive tests and mood self-rating instruments were administered at the
beginning and end of interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell
treatments, before discharge, and at a follow-up visit 2 to 4 weeks after
discharge.
SETTING: National Cancer Institute inpatient units at the National Institutes of 
Health.
PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS: Sequential samples of 44 patients with metastatic
cancer (age range, 28 to 69 years) who were treated systemically with recombinant
interleukin-2 combined with autologous lymphokine-activated killer cells between 
30 December 1985 and 31 March 1986.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 44 patients studied, 15 developed severe
behavioral changes that necessitated acute intervention, and 22 patients had
severe cognitive changes (all 22 became disoriented and many also had
psychometric evidence of cognitive deterioration). The neuropsychiatric side
effects were dose and time related, appearing more frequently at the higher dose 
and almost uniformly at the end of each treatment phase. All 39 patients who were
seen at follow-up had a return to their baseline cognitive scores. None of the
factors investigated was found to be predictive of the development of
neuropsychiatric toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: The development of clinically significant neuropsychiatric changes
during the administration of interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells 
was common and may be treatment limiting. A marked latency in the appearance of
neuropsychiatric changes after treatment onset was noted in almost all patients. 
Every patient studied recovered from the neuropsychiatric side effects.

PMID: 3497595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Sep;107(3):278-85.

Adenine arabinoside monophosphate (vidarabine phosphate) in combination with
human leukocyte interferon in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. A randomized,
double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial.

Garcia G, Smith CI, Weissberg JI, Eisenberg M, Bissett J, Nair PV, Mastre B,
Rosno S, Roskamp D, Waterman K, et al.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of adenine arabinoside monophosphate
(Ara-AMP vidarabine phosphate) with or without human leukocyte interferon in
chronic hepatitis B.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial with 6-month
treatment and an 18-month follow-up.
SETTING: Referral-based liver-disease clinics at three university medical
centers.
PATIENTS: Twenty-five patients with chronic active hepatitis or cirrhosis and 39 
with chronic persistent hepatitis.
INTERVENTIONS: Thirteen patients received intramuscular Ara-AMP, 2.5 mg/kg body
weight, twice daily, alternated monthly for 6 months with subcutaneous human
leukocyte interferon, 5 million units, twice daily. Painful paresthesia of the
legs necessitated dosage reduction and early discontinuation of enrollment.
Twenty-four patients received intramuscular Ara-AMP, 2.5 mg/kg, twice daily,
alternated monthly for 6 months with a matching placebo given subcutaneously
twice daily. Twenty-seven patients received placebo by intramuscular and
subcutaneous injections twice daily for 6 months.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of the 64 patients, 95% had symptomatic and
virologic data available and 64% had biopsies at 12 months; at 24 months, 77% had
data available and 56% had repeat biopsies. The highest dropout rate was seen in 
the group receiving Ara-AMP. The group receiving the placebo was less symptomatic
(Karnofsky score of 96% compared with 91% in the group receiving Ara-AMP/placebo 
and 92% in the group receiving Ara-AMP/human leukocyte interferon, p = 0.02) at
12 but not at 24 months. Loss of DNA polymerase, the hepatitis B e antigen, and
the serum hepatitis B virus DNA was similar in all three groups. Histologically, 
erosion of the limiting plate and lobular activity favored Ara-AMP at 12 but not 
at 24 months and these differences did not result in differences in the
histologic diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: These results do not support the use of Ara-AMP and human leukocyte
interferon in chronic persistent or chronic active hepatitis B.

PMID: 2441633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Sep;7(26):159-61.

The use of nasogastric tubes after abdominal surgery--a criteria audit.

Hall JC(1), Mander J, el Saleh H, Archer C, Fermanis M, Britto A.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of nasogastric tubes after gastrointestinal
surgery.
METHOD: Prospective criteria audit.
RESULTS: In this study, 32.5% of patients (65/200) undergoing laparotomy had a
nasogastric tube inserted during the perioperative period. Of these patients, 20%
vomited whilst the tube was in situ and there was a poor correlation between the 
volumes of fluid aspirated and the timing of tube removal. These results suggest 
that nasogastric tubes were inserted too often and then left in situ for too
long.

PMID: 3675318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Sep;7(26):155-8.

An audit of upper gastrointestinal endoscopy in Australian facilities--results of
a pilot study.

Kasap D, Robinson M.

OBJECTIVE: To test the endoscopy audit protocol for larger prospective study.
METHOD: Prospective medical audit.
RESULTS: Sixty two endoscopies provided both patient data and suggestions for
improvement in the protocol.

PMID: 3675317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Sep;7(26):139-51.

First year evaluation of a private MRI facility.

Houang M, Kitchener P.

OBJECTIVE: To review the first years experience of the only private MRI facility 
in Australia.
METHOD: Utilisation Review.
RESULTS: 1497 scans have been comprehensively analysed, with regard to the
efficacy of the procedure in examining the brain, spinal cord, the lumbar region 
and the knee joint.

PMID: 3675316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1987 Sep;58(9 Pt 2):A262-5.

Mechanisms of antimotion sickness drugs.

Wood CD(1), Manno JE, Wood MJ, Manno BR, Redetzki HM.

Author information: 
(1)Louisiana State University Medical Center, Department of Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, Shreveport 71130.

Eight subjects, male and female, were rotated using the step method to
progressively increase the speed of rotation (+2 rpm) after every 40 head
movements to a maximum of 35 rpm. The end-point for motion sickness was the
Graybiel Malaise III total of symptoms short of frank nausea. The drug treatments
were placebo, scopolamine 0.6 mg and 1 mg, scopolamine 0.6 mg/d-amphetamine 10
mg, scopolamine 1 mg/d-amphetamine 10 mg and amphetamine 10 mg.RESULTS:
Scopolamine increased tolerated head movements over placebo level by +81,
scopolamine 1 mg + 183, d-amphetamine + 118, scopolamine 0.6/d-amphetamine + 165,
and scopolamine 1 mg/d-amphetamine 10 mg + 201.
DISCUSSION: The drugs effective in preventing motion sickness are divided into
those with central acetylcholine blocking activity and those which enhance
norepinephrine activity. A combination of both of these actions produces the most
effective antimotion sickness medications.
CONCLUSIONS: The balance between the acetylcholine and norepinephrine activity in
the CNS appears to be responsible for motion sickness.

PMID: 3675502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Eur J Pediatr. 1987 Sep;146(5):519-23.

Activity of blood coagulation factor XIII as a prognostic indicator in patients
with Henoch-Schönlein purpura. Efficacy of factor XIII substitution.

Kamitsuji H(1), Tani K, Yasui M, Taniguchi A, Taira K, Tsukada S, Iida Y, Kanki
H, Fukui H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nara Medical University, Japan.

Determination of coagulation Factor XIII (F XIII)-related parameters in 21
patients with Henoch-Schönlein purpura documented a significant decrease of F
XIII activity as well as of the F XIII-related antigenic determinants. Subgroup
analysis with regard to the clinical symptoms showed an even further decrease of 
these parameters in patients with gastrointestinal complications. Stimulated by
these findings a substitution therapy with a F XIII concentrate was initiated in 
those patients whose F XIII activity in plasma remained low and who developed
severe abdominal pain accompanied by persisting gastrointestinal bleeding. This
therapeutic approach not only corrected the laboratory data, but more important
led to a cessation of pain and bleeding. A rapid decrease of F XIII levels after 
transfusion below 40 U/ml was indicative of relapse of abdominal symptoms, while 
increasing values were associated with the recovery of the patients.IN
CONCLUSION: F XIII activity determinations appear to have a predictive value in
patients with Henoch-Schönlein purpura, and the administration of F XIII
concentrates may contribute to the improvement of gastrointestinal complications.

PMID: 3678279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Horm Metab Res. 1987 Sep;19(9):422-5.

Blood glucose and free insulin levels after the administration of insulin by
conventional syringe or jet injector in insulin treated type 2 diabetics.

Kerum G(1), Profozić V, Granić M, Skrabalo Z.

Author information: 
(1)Vuk Vrhovac Institute for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Yugoslavia.

The levels of blood glucose and free insulin were compared in 20 diabetic
subjects (type 2) receiving one dose of a combination of fast-acting and
intermediary-acting insulins in the morning by means of a needle syringe or a jet
injector (SICIM, Italy), using minimum possible injecting power. A shift to the
left in the free insulin profile, consequential to different pharmacokinetic
characteristics of insulin when administered by means of a jet injector, was
observed, although no significant differences were seen for free insulin levels. 
Statistically significantly higher blood glucose values (P less than 0.05) were
recorded 6 and 9 h after insulin administration by means of a jet injector, as
well as statistically significant higher MBG values (P less than 0.05), thus
indicating a faster and shorter effect achieved in comparison to that produced by
the syringe injected insulin.CONCLUSIONS: 1. When switching the method of insulin
administration in patients from needle syringe to jet injections the power of the
jet injector should be increased (it can be set in three different levels). If
that is not possible, because of patient skin characteristics then the dose of
intermediary acting insulin should be slightly increased. 2. No local or general 
side-effects were registered using minimum injecting power of jet injector. 3.
The results of the controlled poll have shown that this method of insulin
administration is less painful and simpler for patients. The great majority of
the patients would like to possess a jet injector.

PMID: 3319860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Hum Toxicol. 1987 Sep;6(5):365-75.

Studies on the metabolic behaviour of industrial actinide-bearing aerosols after 
deposition in the rat lung: an experimental basis for interpreting chest
monitoring data and assessing limits on intake for workers.

Stradling GN(1), Stather JW, Gray SA, Moody JC, Bailey MR, Hodgson A, Collier C.

Author information: 
(1)National Radiological Protection Board, Didcot, Oxon, UK.

The metabolism of 239Pu and 241Am in 3 site-specific industrial dusts has been
studied after their deposition in the rat lung. A comparative experiment has also
been carried out with a mixture of these actinides inhaled as their nitrates. The
aim of this study was to provide an experimental basis for assessing limits on
intake and to establish whether the 239Pu content in the lungs could be
interpolated from measurements of 241Am.THE RESULTS: 1 demonstrate the wide
differences in the lung retention kinetics of the actinides and in the absolute
and relative amounts translocated to the blood that can occur for industrially
produced materials; 2 show that the annual limits on intake (ALIs) for the
different materials vary between those postulated for class W and Y compounds by 
the International Commission on Radiological Protection; 3 indicate that acute
intakes of 239Pu equivalent to the ALI can, depending on the nature of the dust, 
be estimated from 241Am chest monitoring data at times from a few days up to
about 3 years after exposure.

PMID: 3679244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1987 Sep;69(7):1063-8.

The effect of antibiotics on the destruction of cartilage in experimental
infectious arthritis.

Smith RL(1), Schurman DJ, Kajiyama G, Mell M, Gilkerson E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Orthopedic Surgery, Stanford University Medical Center, California
94305.

In joints with bacterial arthritis, continuing prolonged destruction of cartilage
may occur in spite of prompt, effective antibiotic therapy. We measured the
extent to which early antibiotic therapy with ceforanide altered the degradation 
of the cartilage after arthritis due to Staphylococcus aureus had been produced
in the knee joint in rabbits. Degradation of the cartilage was quantified by
analyses for glycosaminoglycan and collagen. Three weeks after the infection was 
produced, the cartilage had lost more than half of its glycosaminoglycan whether 
the antibiotic therapy had been started at one, two, or seven days after
infection. Beginning the antibiotic treatment one day after infection reduced
over-all loss of collagen by 37 per cent and decreased the area of erosion of the
infected articular surfaces. When antibiotic treatment was begun at four, eight, 
or twelve hours after infection, the loss of glycosaminoglycan averaged 18 per
cent. Prophylaxis with antibiotics completely prevented any degradation of the
cartilage.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The findings reported here show how rapidly
cartilage loses glycosaminoglycan when it is involved by arthritis caused by
staphylococci and how early treatment of the infection reduces the loss of
collagen. There is less protection against loss of glycosaminoglycan. The results
emphasize the need for early diagnosis and treatment of infectious synovitis and 
support the rationale for early administration of antibiotics without waiting for
identification of the responsible bacteria.

PMID: 3654698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1987 Sep;69(7):1052-62.

The optimum position of arthrodesis of the ankle. A gait study of the knee and
ankle.

Buck P(1), Morrey BF, Chao EY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

Findings from biomechanical analyses of gait were used to estimate the optimum
position of arthrodesis of the ankle. Nineteen patients who were followed for an 
average of 10.4 years (range, four to seventeen years) were studied. By including
the knee in the analysis as well as studying the effects on gait of different
ground conditions, objective data for the weight-bearing extremities in the
transverse, sagittal, and coronal planes were generated. Genu recurvatum was
shown to be associated with a plantar-flexion position of fusion of the ankle.
Laxity of the medial collateral ligament of the knee was noted in twelve patients
(63 per cent). Among these patients, in three (16 per cent) the laxity was graded
as moderate to severe, possibly due to external rotation of the extremity during 
gait to avoid rolling over the rigid plantar-flexed ankle. The patterns of gait
showed that a valgus position of the arthrodesis is more advantageous and
provides more normal gait, particularly on uneven ground. To attain more normal
function of the knee and improve performance on rough ground, the optimum
position of arthrodesis of the ankle appears to be neutral flexion, slight (zero 
to 5 degrees) valgus angulation, and approximately 5 to 10 degrees of external
rotation. Posterior displacement of the talus under the tibia tends to produce a 
more normal pattern of gait and decreases the stress at the knee.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: This study has shown the ideal position of fusion of the ankle to be
neutral flexion, slight (zero to 5 degrees) valgus angulation of the hind part of
the foot, and 5 to 10 degrees of external rotation. This position allows the
greatest compensatory motion at the foot and places the least strain on the knee.

PMID: 3654697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1987 Sep;135(9):646-9.

[Prevention of migraine with flunarizine and acetylsalicylic acid. A double-blind
study].

[Article in German]

Pothmann R.

Author information: 
Kinderklinik, Wuppertal.

30 children between 7 and 17 years suffering from at least 2 attacks/month of
common or classical migraine since more than 1 year were studied. After clinical 
exclusion of symptomatic headache 4 weeks were documented by means of a migraine 
diary. Prophylaxis with Calcium entry blocker Flunarizine (Sibelium) or
Thromboxane A inhibitor Acetylsalicylic acid (ASS) was carried out in a double
blind design for 3 months. Medication was given as one dosage in the evening: 2-5
mg/kg KG ASS or 5-10 mg Flunarizine. Documented attack frequency and duration
were controlled at monthly physical examinations. Final results showed no
differences in significant reduction of attack frequency or symptoms between both
different therapeutic principals. 72.4% (ASS 73.3%; Flunarizine 71.4%) of
patients were attack-free or had at least a 50% reduction. Migraine frequency of 
initially 7-8 was reduced to 1-2 attacks/month. Duration remained constant in
both groups (1-3 h). Side effects were slight body weight gain or abdominal pain 
after intake, prophylaxis had not to be interrupted therefore. Longtime prognosis
is not yet possible because the time of observation is too short so
far.CONCLUSION: Both substances are definitely useful and have few side effects
in childhood migraine. If the response to one is insufficient the other substance
should be tried.

PMID: 3313023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. No Shinkei Geka. 1987 Sep;15(9):1025-30.

[A case of dural arteriovenous malformation in the anterior fossa].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda N(1), Fujita S, Kondo T, Yasuda M, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Himeji Brain and Heart Center, Hyogo, Japan.

Dural arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are not uncommon. But most of dural AVMs
are located in the cavernous portion or the transverse-sigmoid portion. Dural
AVMs in the anterior fossa and very rare. We experienced a case of dural AVM in
the anterior fossa and review 17 cases of dural AVM in the anterior fossa in the 
literature.CASE: a 62-year-old male was admitted to our center because of
unconsciousness and vomiting on Sept. 28; 1985. For nineteen months he had been
on anticoagulant therapy after aorto-coronary bypass. Neurological examination on
admission revealed somnolence and right-hemiparesis. CT scan revealed
intracerebral hematoma in the left frontal lobe with ventricular perforation.
Enhanced CT scan revealed patchy enhancement in the tip of the left frontal lobe.
Selective angiographies were performed. Dural AVM, fed by both anterior ethmoidal
arteries and drained by the cortical veins into the superior sagittal sinus and
left superficial middle cerebral vein, was found. Selective external carotid
angiography failed to visualize any AVM. MRI revealed spotty low signal intensity
in the frontal tip by inversion recovery and spin echo. After admission his
consciousness and right-hemiparesis improved completely. Left frontal craniotomy 
was done. On opening the dura, aneurysmal dilatation was found in the left
frontal lobe, arising from the inner surface of the dura at the antero-medial
corner of the left anterior fossa. From this aneurysmal dilatation a few veins
entered the superior sagittal sinus. Red veins including aneurysmal dilation was 
removed from its origin together with the intracerebral hematoma. (ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3320801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 1987 Aug;26(8):388-92.

Chest pain, dyspnea on exertion, and exercise induced asthma in children and
adolescents.

Nudel DB, Diamant S, Brady T, Jarenwattananon M, Buckley BJ, Gootman N.

The contribution of maximal exercise tests to the evaluation of 180 patients with
chest pain associated with exercise (n = 147) or dyspnea on exertion (DOE, n =
33) was examined. The ages ranged from 5 to 22 (mean 13.2) years, and 68 patients
were females. All patients had a normal cardiovascular examination,
electrocardiogram, chest x-ray, and 2D-echocardiogram. Maximal exercise tests
were performed on a treadmill or bicycle ergometer, and flow volume loops were
performed before and after exercise (n = 65). Exercise tests did not reveal any
cardiovascular abnormalities, but 14 patients with chest pain (9.5%) and seven
patients with DOE (21.2%) developed exercise-induced asthma. Postexercise
decrease in peak expiratory flow rate was 26.2 +/- 3.7 percent in patients with
chest pain and 39.4 +/- 8.9 percent in those with DOE. Only five patients had a
personal history and four others had a family history of asthma. Seven patients
had a personal or family history of allergies.IMPLICATIONS: exercise-induced
asthma should be considered in pediatric patients with symptoms of chest pain or 
dyspnea on exertion; when exercise tests are performed, flow volume loops should 
be included before and after exercise; maximal exercise tests are unlikely to
unmask any cardiovascular abnormalities in such patients.

PMID: 3595047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Eur Heart J. 1987 Aug;8 Suppl C:71-5.

Quantification of valvular regurgitation by cardiac blood pool scintigraphy:
correlation with catheterization.

Melchior JP(1), Chevigne M, Righetti A, de Bruyne B, Salembier JP, Barthelemy JC,
Marchandise B.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiology Department, University of Louvain, Mont-Godinne, Yvoir, Belgium.

The diagnosis of valvular regurgitation (R) is usually based on clinical signs.
Quantification conventionally requires catheterization (C). We have quantified R 
with cardiac blood pool scintigraphy (CBPS) and compared the results with those
obtained by C. Regurgitant fraction (RF) determined by C was calculated with the 
technique of Dodge. Forward output was measured by thermodilution or cardiogreen 
dilution. The RF at CBPS was obtained by the stroke index ratio (SIR) minus 1.2
divided by SIR, where SIR is the ratio of the stroke counts of left ventricle
over those of the right ventricle. Stroke counts are calculated directly from the
time-activity curves. Each time-activity curve was obtained by drawing one region
of interest around each diastolic image. The correction factor (1.2) was
calculated from a large normal population. 22 patients had aortic R, 7 mitral R, 
12 both, 8 patients had no evidence of regurgitation. RF of the patients with R
varied from 27 to 71% (x = 42%) at C and from 26 to 74% (y = 41%) at CBPS. Linear
regression shows a good correlation coefficient (r = 0.82). The regression
equation is y = 0.93x + 1.8. No correlation was found between RF (CBPS or C) and 
the severity of R assessed visually from angiography.IN CONCLUSION: CBPS, a
non-invasive method, allows easy and repeatable determination of RF and
correlates well with data obtained at catheterization.

PMID: 3678249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Eur Heart J. 1987 Aug;8 Suppl C:53-7.

Diagnosis and quantification of aortic regurgitation by pulsed Doppler
echocardiography in patients with mitral valve disease.

Dittmann H(1), Karsch KR, Seipel L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Tuebingen, F.R.G.

To test the ability of pulsed Doppler echocardiography (PDE) to detect and
quantify aortic regurgitation (AR), 55 consecutive patients (14-74 years) with
aortic and mitral valve disease were examined clinically and by echocardiography 
before cardiac catheterisation. The severity of AR was determined
angiographically (I-IV) and compared to the extent of the regurgitant jet in the 
left ventricle measured by PDE. In 13 of 55 patients (3 with mitral stenosis, 3
with mitral incompetence, 3 with combined mitral lesions, 3 with aortic stenosis,
one with aortic and mitral stenosis) neither angiography nor PDE showed AR
(specificity 100%). Apart from 3 patients with poor echo quality PDE correctly
detected AR in 39 of 42 patients (sensitivity 93%). Clinical examination (62%),
mode M.mode (62%) and both methods combined (81%) were significantly less
sensitive than PDE, especially in mild AR (P less than 0.008). The PDE degree of 
AR closely correlated with angiography (corrected contingency coefficient 0.91). 
Differentiation between AR III and IV was not possible. Mitral valve disease did 
not affect quantification of AR (n = 20 patients).CONCLUSIONS: Pulsed Doppler
echocardiography is better than auscultation and M-mode echocardiography in the
diagnosis of aortic regurgitation, especially in grades I and II. PDE can
reliably discriminate between three degrees of aortic regurgitation (I-III).
Mitral valve disease does not affect quantification of aortic regurgitation by
PDE.

PMID: 3678247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1987 Aug;90(1):51-61.

36 months continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) in insulin dependent
diabetes (IDDM)--influence on early stages of retinopathy, nephropathy and
neuropathy--psychological analysis.

Bibergeil H(1), Hüttl I, Felsing W, Felsing U, Seidlein I, Herfurth S, Dabels J, 
Reichel G, Lüder C, Albrecht G, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute of Diabetes Gerhardt Katsch, Karlsburg, GDR.

In extremely unstable (brittle) IDDM patients (n = 11) the metabolic effect of
long-term (36 months) CSII proved to be superior to conventional insulin
treatment (CIT) (statistical twins, n = 11): HbA1 = 8.6 +/- 0.3 versus 10.4 +/-
0.4, MBG = 5.6 +/- 0.3 versus 8.5 +/- 0.8, M (80)- value = 23.6 +/- 0.6 versus
56.7 +/- 10.2, GCI) = 37.3 +/- 15.6 versus 132 +/- 24.2. In addition, in CSII
patients the metabolic control was significantly better than intensified
conventional insulin treatment (ICT) before. Retinal morphology improved under
CSII in 1 eye, did not change in 10 eyes and deteriorated in 11 eyes. Under CIT
retinal findings improved in none, did not change in 16 and deteriorated in 16
eyes. Deteriorations under CSII appeared more frequently during the first than
during the second and third year of treatment and seemed to be a consequence of
too strict metabolic control and/or too fast decrease of the glycemia at the
beginning of CSII. During 36 months of CSII no deterioration but in one case
normalization of microproteinuria was observed. Under CIT three cases changed
from normal into microproteinuria. Reduced motor nerve conduction velocity (MCV) 
and/or sensory nerve conduction velocity (SCV) could be normalized in most cases 
under CSII, but respiratory heart arrhythmia (RHA) at rest could not. Most
patients--if highly motivated before starting CSII--remained positively motivated
for long-term pump therapy.IN CONCLUSION: Our experiences over three years
demonstrate a positive effect of CSII on the metabolism as well as on the course 
of early stages of microangiopathy and neuropathy. A longer period of
observations will be necessary to evaluate this, conclusively.

PMID: 3666060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1987 Aug;94(2):225-33.

Microvascular permeability after cardiopulmonary bypass. An experimental study.

Smith EE, Naftel DC, Blackstone EH, Kirklin JW.

Microvascular permeability is presumed to increase during cardiopulmonary bypass,
but this has not been directly demonstrated.METHOD: Therefore, a controlled
experimental study was performed in dogs in which the permeability ratio of the
small intestinal microvasculature was determined. Shortly after 120 minutes of
cardiopulmonary bypass (experimental group, n = 7) or a sham procedure (control
group, n = 7), the superior mesenteric venous pressure was raised in a stepwise
fashion until the intestinal lymph/plasma protein concentration stabilized at a
minimum value.
DATA: Minimal lymph/plasma concentration ratio (permeability ratio) of the total 
proteins and each of six protein fractions was greater in dogs that had been on
bypass than in control dogs (p = 0.01 for total proteins and less than 0.05 for
five of the fractions). The variability in this regard was large in both groups, 
and in some animals subjected to bypass the permeability ratio was more than
twice the maximum value for the control group. The increase in permeability ratio
was greater for large molecules. Inferences: Cardiopulmonary bypass results in a 
variable increase in microvascular permeability. This results primarily from an
increase in the size of large pores in the microvascular barrier.

PMID: 3613621  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Neth J Surg. 1987 Aug;39(4):129-31.

Indications and results of osteosynthesis by plate fixation of femoral shaft
fractures in children.

van Niekerk JL(1), Dooren DP, Klasen HJ, Binnendijk B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Groningen, The Netherlands.

In a group of 316 children with 318 femoral shaft fractures, 28 had been treated 
operatively (8.8%). Twenty children treated with plate-osteosynthesis came for
follow-up. The indications for operation were polytrauma (6 X), unacceptable
position after conservative treatment (6 X), severe head injury (3 X), serial
fractures of the same limb (3 X) and open fractures (2 X). The average follow-up 
after trauma was four years and six months. Direct postoperative complications
were a transient peroneal nerve palsy and a broken plate. In 17 children the
difference in leg length was less than or equal to 1 cm. One boy with serial
fractures of the same limb had an overgrowth of 3.3 cm and problems during
walking.CONCLUSION: plate-osteosynthesis was a good method of treatment in this
study on 20 children with femoral fractures and accompanying complicating
conditions.

PMID: 3683942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1987 Jul;115(3):325-30.

Effects of fludrocortisone withdrawal on plasma angiotensin II, ACTH,
vasopressin, and potassium in patients with Addison's disease.

Oelkers W, Bähr V.

We attempted to answer to the question whether excessive rises in endogenous
plasma angiotensin II (AII) stimulate ACTH secretion by measuring PRA, AII, AVP, 
ACTH, and cortisol in 8 patients with Addison's disease before and after
withdrawal of fludrocortisone substitution. Blood was drawn at 14.30 h, exactly 6
1/2 h after the morning dose of hydrocortisone had been taken. PRA and AII were
initially higher than normal in 4 patients. After withdrawal of fludrocortisone
for 1 or 2 weeks, PRA and AII rose markedly in 4 patients (up to 260 ng/l)
without concomitant changes in plasma ACTH levels (r = -0.081, AII vs ACTH).
Changes in plasma cortisol could not have obscured a stimulatory effect of AII on
ACTH by variable feedback inhibition of ACTH release. The increase in plasma AII 
levels in the 4 patients was larger than that observed in a previous study in
normal subjects after rigorous dietary sodium restriction. In all patients,
hyperkalaemia developed after fludrocortisone withdrawal, independent of changes 
in PRA and AII. Rises in PRA, AII, and plasma potassium were partially reversed
by increased sodium intake and further suppressed by resumption of
fludrocortisone therapy. Plasma AVP remained in the normal range after
fludrocortisone withdrawal, but was slightly elevated after increasing salt
intake without fludrocortisone administration.CONCLUSIONS: Rises of endogenous
plasma AII to levels tenfold higher than normal do not stimulate ACTH release.
AII is probably not a physiological modulator of ACTH secretion.
Mineralocorticoid substitution in Addison's disease should be monitored by plasma
potassium measurement. Hyperkalaemia may coexist with normal PRA.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3039766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Anaesthesist. 1987 Jul;36(7):340-4.

[Volatile anesthetics and n-alcohols inhibit the uptake of noradrenaline in
pheochromocytoma cells].

[Article in German]

Tas PW(1), Kress HG, Koschel K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Virologie und Immunbiologie, Universität Würzburg.

Studies with perfused animal organs did not show a significant inhibition of the 
norepinephrine uptake by volatile anesthetics However, the uptake of
norepinephrine into isolated chromaffin granules proved to be halothane-sensitive
, and there is indirect evidence for an inhibition of norepinephrine uptake by
halothane in the dog saphenous vein. So far no literature is available on
norepinephrine uptake into cultured cells in the presence of volatile
anesthetics. The rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC 12, which shares many
properties with adrenal medulla cells and also with sympathetic neurons, has been
used as a model to study norepinephrine uptake and release. One of its properties
in common with sympathetic neurons is the high-affinity uptake system for
norepinephrine. Therefore, we have used PC 12 cells as a pharmacologically
well-established model system to study the effect of general anesthetics on the
uptake of norepinephrine.METHODS: The experiments were performed with monolayers 
of PC 12 cells on 3 cm petri dishes. The cells were allowed to take up tritiated 
norepinephrine (0.25 microCI/ml) for 20 min at 36 degrees C in the presence and
absence of general anesthetics.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The volatile anesthetics halothane, enflurane,
isoflurane, and methoxyflurane in clinical relevant concentrations inhibited the 
high-affinity uptake of tritiated norepinephrine into the PC 12 cells (Fig. 1).
We could further show an inhibition of norepinephrine uptake by n-alkanols at
concentrations that cause anesthesia in tadpoles. Fig. 2 illustrates that a good 
correlation (r = 0.997 for the n-alkanols, r = 0.934 for the volatile
anesthetics) exists between anesthetic potency and the IC50 for norepinephrine
uptake inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3661947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Anaesthesist. 1987 Jul;36(7):333-9.

[Nitrous oxide in combination anesthesia. Quantitative aspects of the effect of
nitrous oxide].

[Article in German]

Rothhammer A.

Author information: 
Institut für Anaesthesiologie und Intensivmedizin, Leopoldina-Krankenhauses
Schweinfurt.

Minimal Alveolar Concentration (MAC) defines the anesthetic potency of nitrous
oxide (N2O) combined with an inhalational anesthetic only for the moment of skin 
incision. For the complete operation, the proportional action of N2O is unknown. 
This prospective, randomized study reports the mean intraoperative concentration 
(MIC) of halothane with and without 70% N2O in combination with premedication,
i.v. induction, and muscle relaxation for the duration of operation.METHODS:
Forty ASA I-II patients scheduled for hysterectomies gave informed consent. All
patients received atropine 0.5 mg, promethazine and pethidine 1 mg/kg i.m. 30-45 
min prior to anesthesia, i.v. induction with thiopental, and neuromuscular
blockade with alcuronium at the beginning of the operation. Post-induction,
patients received randomized halothane in 30% O2/70% N2 (group 1, n = 20) or in
30% O2/70% N2O (group 2, n = 20). In the course of this observation (before
induction and up to 15 min after extubation), the following parameters were
measured (Table 1): arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR), plasma
concentrations of growth hormone, prolactin, and cortisol in central venous
blood, esophageal temperature, "train-of-four" ratio, and expiratory CO2
concentration. MIC had been computed from the integral of end-expiratory
halothane concentration during the course of the operation.
RESULTS: Biometric data and concomitant conditions were equivalent within the two
groups (Table 2). MIC halothane was 0.72 +/- 0.014 vol% in group 1 (O2/N2) and
0.52 +/- 0.01 vol% in group 2 (O2/N2O).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3310725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Jul;107(1):25-30.

Brief chemotherapy and involved field radiation therapy for limited-stage,
histologically aggressive lymphoma.

Connors JM, Klimo P, Fairey RN, Voss N.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and toxicity of brief chemotherapy and
involved field radiation therapy for treatment of limited-stage, histologically
aggressive malignant lymphoma.
DESIGN: Single-arm prospective trial.
SETTING: Comprehensive cancer treatment center serving the entire population of
British Columbia.
PATIENTS: Consecutive enrollment of 78 patients ranging in age from 21 to 82
years (median, 64) with limited-stage (no B symptoms, Ann Arbor stage I or II,
tumors less than 10 cm in diameter), diffuse large cell, mixed or immunoblastic
histologic characteristics of malignant lymphoma seen at our institution between 
May 1980 and December 1984. All eligible patients were evaluated for response and
relapse-free and overall survival.
INTERVENTIONS: Chemotherapy with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
vincristine, and prednisone) for three cycles followed by involved field
radiation therapy to the original site of disease in a dose equivalent to 3000
cGy in ten fractions.
MAIN RESULTS: The complete response rate was 99% (77 of 78 patients). With a
median follow-up off treatment of 30 months the actuarial relapse-free survival
is 84% and the overall survival is 85%. No deaths due to toxicity occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: Brief chemotherapy and involved field radiation therapy is highly
successful treatment for patients with limited-stage, histologically aggressive
malignant lymphoma. Toxicity of this approach is acceptable, even in the elderly.
Staging laparotomy is not needed to select these patients. Future trials should
incorporate more effective chemotherapy programs.

PMID: 3296898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Endocrinology. 1987 Jul;121(1):205-11.

Posterior pituitary lobectomy abolishes the suckling-induced rise in prolactin
(PRL): evidence for a PRL-releasing factor in the posterior pituitary.

Murai I, Ben-Jonathan N.

The aim of this study was to determine the role of the posterior pituitary in the
regulation of PRL release during suckling. Lactating rats were subjected to
posterior pituitary lobectomy (LOBEX) or sham surgery (SHAM) and separation from 
pups in the evening; experimental manipulations and blood collection were
performed the next morning. In the first experiment rats were divided into three 
groups: SHAM, LOBEX, and LOBEX treated with a vasopressin analog,
1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin and oxytocin. Plasma PRL levels in SHAM rats 
increased 20- to 25-fold upon introduction of pups and remained elevated for the 
duration of suckling. In contrast, basal plasma PRL levels in LOBEX rats were 3- 
to 4-fold higher than in SHAM but suckling failed to induce a further increase.
Treatment of LOBEX rats with 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin and oxytocin
reduced water consumption and allowed for milk ejection and milk intake by the
pups but did not restore the suckling-induced rise in PRL. The second experiment 
tested the functional integrity of the hypothalamic dopamine (DA) and
serotonergic systems after LOBEX and the ability of LOBEX-lactating rats to
respond to PRL-releasing stimuli other than suckling. Injections of
alpha-methyl-para tyrosine, an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase, and
5-hydroxytryptophan, a precursor of serotonin, caused 20- to 30-fold rises in
plasma PRL levels in both LOBEX and SHAM rats. Exposure to ether elicited a 3- to
4-fold rise in PRL which was higher in magnitude and of longer duration in LOBEX 
than in SHAM rats.CONCLUSIONS: Removal of the posterior pituitary from lactating 
rats results in an increase in basal PRL levels and a complete abolishment of the
suckling-induced rise. Vasopressin and oxytocin restore water balance and milk
ejection in the LOBEX rat but fail to affect PRL secretion. The LOBEX-lactating
rat is not refractory to PRL-releasing stimuli other than suckling and its
hypothalamic DA and serotonergic systems are functionally intact. In addition to 
DA, the posterior pituitary appears to contain a PRL-releasing factor(s) which
mediates the suckling-induced rise in PRL.

PMID: 3496207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Endocrinology. 1987 Jul;121(1):378-83.

Effects of galanin on hormone secretion from the in situ perfused rat pancreas
and on glucose production in rat hepatocytes in vitro.

Silvestre RA, Miralles P, Monge L, Moreno P, Villanueva ML, Marco J.

Galanin is a novel peptide, widely distributed throughout the central and
peripheral nervous system, including nerve endings surrounding the pancreatic
islets. In dogs, galanin infusion has been reported to induce hyperglycemia along
with a reduction of circulating insulin. In this work, we have studied the effect
of galanin (a 200 ng bolus followed by constant infusion at a concentration of
16.8 ng/ml for 22-24 min) on insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin secretion in the
perfused rat pancreas. In addition, we have investigated the effect of galanin
(10 and 100 nM) on glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis in isolated rat
hepatocytes. In the rat pancreas, galanin infusion marked inhibited unstimulated 
insulin release as well as the insulin responses to glucose (11 mM), tolbutamide 
(100 mg/liter) and arginine (5 mM). Galanin failed to alter the glucagon and
somatostatin responses to glucose, tolbutamide, and arginine. In isolated rat
hepatocytes, galanin did not influence glycogenolysis or glucagon phosphorylase a
activity. Gluconeogenesis and the hepatocyte concentration of fructose
2,6-bisphosphate were also unaffected by galanin.IN CONCLUSION: in the perfused
rat pancreas, galanin inhibited insulin secretion without modifying glucagon and 
somatostatin output, thus pointing to a direct effect of galanin on the B cell;
and in rat hepatocytes, galanin did not affect glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis;
hence, the reported hyperglycemia induced by exogenous galanin does not seem to
be accounted for by a direct effect of this peptide on hepatic glucose
production.

PMID: 2439313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. J Clin Pharmacol. 1987 Jul;27(7):450-60.

Bevantolol: a beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonist with unique additional actions.

Vaughan Williams EM.

Author information: 
Hertford College, Oxford University, England.

Bevantolol is a beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonist that has been shown to be as
effective as other beta blockers for the treatment of angina pectoris and
hypertension. Some interesting additional properties, such as the absence of the 
side effect of cold extremities, required investigation, and a great deal of new 
evidence has been accumulated during the last three years. This new data is
consistent with the proposal put forward a couple of years ago that bevantolol
interacts with alpha-adrenoceptors. All the available evidence, published and
unpublished, has been reviewed and fits into a coherent pattern, here arranged
into five sections. Chemistry: affinity for alpha-adrenoceptors. Animal
experiments confirm both agonist and antagonist effects on alpha-receptors, in
addition to antagonist activity at beta-1 receptors. In addition, bevantolol has 
electrophysiologic effects, including bradycardia by a direct action on the sinus
node and a class 1 antiarrhythmic action. Investigations in humans have shown
that although bevantolol has a short half-life, good control of hypertension can 
be achieved on once-a-day dosing.SAFETY: bevantolol has remarkably few side
effects, does not cause cold extremities, and does not significantly affect
glomerular filtration rate in patients with renal impairment. Evidence has been
obtained in man for interaction with alpha-adrenoceptors in the brain; and in the
peripheral circulation bevantolol does not, as do other beta blockers, increase
peripheral vascular resistance, but reduces it. It is suggested that all the
additional actions of bevantolol can be attributed to a partial agonist action on
alpha-adrenoceptors.

PMID: 2888789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. No Shinkei Geka. 1987 Jul;15(7):725-30.

[Diagnosis of a cystic lesion in the spinal cord--studies on delayed CT
myelography and MRI].

[Article in Japanese]

Isu T(1), Iwasaki Y, Akino M, Abe H, Tashiro K, Miyasaka K, Saito H, Nomura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, Sapporo,
Japan.

The collection of contrast medium within the spinal cord on delayed CT
myelography generally indicates the presence of syringomyelia. We report the
cases of cystic myelopathy with intramedullary contrast accumulation on delayed
CT myelography. The purpose of this report is to compare MRI with delayed CT
myelogram and to discuss the pathogenesis of the intramedullary contrast
accumulation on delayed CT myelography.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Thirty patients
with intramedullary contrast accumulation on delayed CT myelography were studied 
with High Resolution Computed Tomography (Siemens Somatom II) and Magnetic
Resonance Imaging (MRI) (0.15T imager, Toshiba MRT 15A). MRI were routinely
obtained in both axial plane and sagittal plane. Short spin-echo sequences (30
msec TE, 500 msec TR) were used. This series included 6 cases of cervical disc
disease, 5 cases of Chiari malformation, 4 cases of lipomeningocele, 4 cases of
adhesive arachnoiditis, 2 cases of thoracolumbar spondylosis, 2 cases of trauma, 
one case of spinal arachnoid cyst, one case of spinal epidural cyst, and 5 cases 
of idiopathic type.
RESULTS: 1) In 17 out of the 30 patients (57%), the region corresponding to the
region of contrast medium collection, which was visualized on delayed CT
myelography, was seen as an area of the low signal intensity on MRI. In 11 cases 
out of 17, the syrinx cavity was confirmed at surgery. 2) In 13 cases, delayed CT
myelogram showed collection of intramedullary contrast medium, but MRI failed to 
reveal an area of low signal intensity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3670542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Reg Anaesth. 1987 Jul;10(3):82-7.

[Bupivacaine-CO2 and bupivacaine-HCl at various injection temperatures in
peridural anesthesia for extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy].

[Article in German]

Janik R(1), Erdmann K, Dick W.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Anaesthesiologie, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

INTRODUCTION: The effect of different injection temperatures on carbonated
anesthetics has been controversial since 1965. The current study was undertaken
to determine onset times of sensory and motor blockade after epidural anesthesia 
with 0.5% bupivacaine-CO2 and 0.5% bupivacaine-HCl at various injection
temperatures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was performed on 90 ASA class I-II urologic
patients during extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. The patients were
randomized in six groups to receive either 0.5% bupivacaine-CO2 or 0.5%
bupivacaine-HCl at temperatures of 4 degrees, 20 degrees, or 36 degrees C. The
six groups were comparable in age, height, and weight. Epidural anesthesia was
performed at the L2-3 interspace with an 18-gauge Tuohy needle using loss of
resistance. A catheter was advanced 4 cm in the epidural space and 4 ml 0.5%
bupivacaine with adrenaline 1:200,000 was given as a test dose. After 4 min the
full anesthetic dose, based on body size, was injected with the patient supine.
Sensory blockade was determined by the pinprick method and motor blockade by the 
Bromage method at 2-min intervals for the first 20 min, at 5-min intervals for
the next 10 min, and then every 15 min to a total of 240 min. Statistical
analysis was done by the Mann-Whitney test, with P less than 0.05 considered
significant.
RESULTS: Spread of sensory blockade was significantly faster with bupivacaine-CO2
and -HCl at a temperature of 36 degrees C as compared to 4 degrees or 20 degrees 
C (P less than 0.05) (Figs. 1, 2 and Table 2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3116609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Steroids. 1987 Jul-Sep;50(1-3):191-200.

Effects of the aromatase inhibitor testolactone on human benign prostatic
hyperplasia.

Schweikert HU(1), Tunn UW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Bonn, FRG.

The aromatase inhibitor testolactone was used for endocrine treatment of benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Thirteen patients (mean age 79 years) with complete 
urinary retention (BPH stage IV) without improvement after 4 weeks of bladder
drainage by suprapubic catheter were treated with testolactone 100 mg, b.i.d.,
for 6 months. Nine men (mean age 80 years) with identical conditions who did not 
receive hormonal therapy served as controls. Results, treatment group: In 7
patients spontaneous micturation reoccurred after an average treatment period of 
8 weeks (group A); 6 patients continued to need the catheter (group B). Prostatic
volume decreased in all patients, and an average volume reduction of 26% was
found in group A, whereas in group B the decrease averaged 15%. Finally, the
testosterone/estradiol ratio significantly increased in all patients during
treatment.CONTROL GROUP: Prostatic volume did not change nor did spontaneous
micturation occur during the whole observation period.

PMID: 2460975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Z Gerontol. 1987 Jul-Aug;20(4):230-5.

[Circadian-dependent changes in the EEG of vital elderly humans].

[Article in German]

Wendland KL(1), Ruttkowski EF, Gundel A, Jonas B.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Psychiatrie im Zentrum Nervenheilkunde der Universität Kiel.

The study was conducted with six women and four men, 70-84 years old, without any
psychopathologic signs of organic brain syndrome. Every experiment ran for five
days during which closed-eye-EEGs were registered at 8 a.m., at 12 noon, at 4
p.m., and at 8 p.m. of the alert but relaxed patients and recorded on tape for
computer processing. Simultaneously with every EEG registration the body
temperature was measured.RESULTS: As in younger persons the power of the alpha
frequency band occipital exceeds the activity of the other frequency bands. But
though the frequency of the dominant alpha rhythm comes with 9.5 Hz occipital on 
an average clearly under the normal range, there was a slight slowing down in
sporadic cases. Probably old age leads to a decrease of alpha frequency, even in 
a state of unaffected sanity. The increase of peak frequency and body temperature
during the day, well known from experiments with younger people, comes to the
fore in the healthy aged as well. Of striking intensity, especially in the
evening, is the beta power at the parietal and the central parts of the scalp,
caused possibly by a transitory decline of vigilance. Circadian variations of the
different band powers, ascertained in younger persons, are absent in the present 
collective.

PMID: 3660921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Jun;80(6):892-6.

[Computerized processing, using a Macintosh, of ambulatory arterial pressure
measurements collected on a Spacelabs monitor].

[Article in French]

Chanudet X(1), Bauduceau B, Leguicher A, Celton H, Larroque P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine interne et Pathologie cardiovasculaire, HIA Begin,
Saint-Mandé.

The use of the Spacelabs blood pressure recorder has given rise to processing
programs running on Apple II and IBM PC computers. The authors have written in
M.S. BASIC (2.1) a program who take advantage of graphic abilities and easy
manipulation on Macintosh. The software was designed to perform three tasks:
Communicating between Macintosh and Spacelabs station using serial interface (RS 
232) without requesting specific interface card. Editing a report on two pages:
The first is the listing of 96 measurements (one by 15 minutes). The second
provides: patient identification, height, weight, diagnosis. Graphic
representation of measurements Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP)
repartition histogram for 24 hours, day and night. Standard deviation and mean of
pressure and heart rate (HR) for those periods. A third optionally gives hourly
chronogram and diagrams for cumulated BP and HR. Creating a file: 550 records can
be stored on a 800 K floppy disk. The file handles: data for each patient
(excepted identification). Random access and revision of each parameter is
possible.SYNTHESIS: comparative reports for group patients and patient by patient
analysing data with appropriate statistical test (ANOVA and correlation) are
done.

PMID: 3116990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Jun;80(6):1020-5.

[Nycthemeral blood pressure monitoring in the diagnosis of borderline arterial
hypertension in young adults].

[Article in French]

Chanudet X(1), Bauduceau B, Rojouan G, Celton H, Clement R, Larroque P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Médecine interne et Pathologie cardiovasculaire, Saint-Mandé.

PURPOSE: Evaluating Blood Pressure Monitoring contribution at rest to the
diagnosis and pathophysiology of borderline (BL) hypertension in the twenties.
METHOD: a nycthemeral blood pressure recording each 15 minute has been performed 
during the 48 first hours of hospitalisation on two groups of white twenties
males with a Dinamap: 143 CONTROLS. Mean age: 21.1 +/- 2 yrs, mean height: 177
+/- 7 cm, mean weight: 71 +/- 11 kg; 104 BL hypertensive patients. Mean age: 21
+/- 2 yrs, mean height: 178 +/- 7 cm, mean weight: 78 +/- 12 kg. Mean BP
recording levels are smaller than casual measurements in two groups: CONTROLS
(Casual BP: 125/71, BP recording on 24 hours: 117/60, day time: 121/63,
nighttime: 110/54 mmHg). BL hypertensives (Casual BP: 144/83, BP recording on 24 
h: 132/69, daytime: 137/73, nighttime: 121/60 mmHg). Nycthemeral BP variability
measured by the standard deviation of mean pressure is not different in two
groups for systolic variability, it significantly differs for diastolic
variability (BL: 7.6/CONTROLS: 5.5, p less than 0.01). Correlations between
casual BP and diurnal records are stronger in controls than in BL patients
showing a lower predictive value of clinical assessment in BL patients. Though
the same heart rate at sleep, BP is significantly higher in BL than in controls. 
It probably means that factors different from sympathetic activity are involved
in pathophysiology of borderline hypertension. The whole measurement study on 24 
hours of two groups show an important overlap (the 65th percentile in BL systolic
BP correspond with the 95th of controls, the 74th percentile in BL diastolic BP
correspond with the 95th in controls). That make difficult the recording
evaluation for a given patient.

PMID: 3116965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Jun;80(6):942-6.

[Digoxin-like natriuretic factor, raised during normal pregnancy, is increased in
pregnancy-induced hypertension and pre-eclampsia].

[Article in French]

Fiévet P(1), el-Esper N, Roth O, Siegenthaler G, Grégoire I, Favre H, Fournier A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Hôpital Sud, CHU d'Amiens.

The increase of peripheral resistance in pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) and
in preeclampsia (PE) is not yet explained since previous studies have found that 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is actually depressed, that adrenergic
system is inconstantly stimulated and that vasodilating prostaglandins are
inconstantly decreased. In order to get a better insight in the pathogenesis of
PIH and PE, we have measured the 24 h urinary excretion of digoxin-like
natriuretic factor (DLF) in 15 normotensive pregnant women (NP), in 29 women with
PIH and in 6 women with PE under normal salt diet, without treatment. DLF have
been measured by radio receptor binding assay. Normal values were established in 
14 normotensive non pregnant (NNP). In NP, 24 h urinary excretion of DLF was
significantly higher than in NNP (respectively 14.9 +/- 7.5 and 9.5 +/- 2.5
nmol/mmol of creatininuria, p less than 0.01). Comparatively to NP, 24 h urinary 
excretion of DLF was significantly higher in PIH (31.7 +/- 19 nmol/mmol of
creatininuria) and in PE (40.7 +/- 16.3 nmol/mmol of creatininuria). In PIH and
PE, there were simultaneously a decrease of plasma renin activity and plasma
volume but no difference for plasma catecholamines.IN CONCLUSION: 1. the
production of DLF is increased by normal pregnancy; 2. it is increased in PIH and
PE in comparison with NP and may explain the increase of peripheral resistance.

PMID: 2959238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Jun;80(6):777-82.

[Polyamines and cardiovascular hypertrophy in experimental hypertension].

[Article in French]

Mathy C(1), Carlier P, Yerna N, Rorive G.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Médecine, Université de Liège, Belgique.

Biochemical mechanisms which control cardiac and vascular response to
hypertension are still unclear. Modifications of polyamines (putrescine,
spermine, spermidine) may play a role in this phenomenon, since these molecules
have been shown of importance in the control of tissue growth. Ornithine
Decarboxylase (ODC) catalyses the first and probably the rate limiting step in
the biosynthesis of the polyamines. We thus attempted to detect modification of
ODC activity in renovascular hypertension in the rat (G1K-1C) and tried to
correlate hypertrophic response and ODC activity in the aorta (Ao), the left (LV)
and the right (RV) ventricles. In this experimental model, the aortic ODC
activity increased at day 1 and 2, after clipping the renal artery, whereas in
the LV the ODC activity increased after day 3 but stay high at least until day 7.
The peak of ODC activity comes before the increase in DNA synthesis which occurs 
at day 4 in Ao, and the increase in protein turnover observed at day 7 in LV. No 
significant variation of ODC activity neither changes in DNA or protein
biosynthesis rate are observed in the RV. In parallel with changes in ODC
activity, an increase in spermidine and spermine content and mainly in the
spermidine/spermine ratio is observed in the Ao and the LV confirming stimulation
in polyamine biosynthesis in hypertensive tissues.IN CONCLUSION: increase in ODC 
activity is observed only in these tissues that will develop hypertrophy or
hyperplasia and this modification is observed before any increase in nucleic
acids or protein tissues content or turnover rate.

PMID: 2959229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Jun;7(25):85-9.

An audit of surgery in 100 patients over 75 years in a private hospital.

Reid DP, McEntee CD.

OBJECTIVE: To determine what operations are being done on patients over 75 years 
in a private hospital, to observe performance in terms of justification,
morbidity and mortality.
METHOD: Retrospective audit of 100 patients over 75 years having surgery at an
Adelaide private hospital.
RESULTS: Cystoscopy, inguinal herniorrhaphy, cataract and colon surgery were the 
most common procedures. One patient died--probably from a leaking aortic
abdominal aneurysm. Four patients had significant morbidity in the form of burst 
abdomen, ruptured femoral-popliteal bypass graft, biliary collection requiring
reoperation and cardiac arrhythmia requiring a pacemaker. Twenty three other
patients had minor morbidity. No unnecessary operations were detected.

PMID: 3619767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Jun;7(25):69-72.

Quality assurance of obstetrical care in Belgium.

Buekens P, Derom R, Thiery M, Bekaert A, Vlietinck R.

OBJECTIVE: To assist Obstetric Departments in observing their own performance and
comparing it with other departments.
METHODS: Voluntary questionnaire concerning performance filled in at the time of 
delivery. Data processed by the Ministry of Health and Universities. Coordination
by the College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.
RESULTS: Thirty seven per cent of the Flemish obstetrical departments were
participating at the end of the first year. The profiles show wide variations in 
intervention rates.

PMID: 3619765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Jun;7(25):60-8.

Consumer obstetrics.

Del Mar C, O'Connor V.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the perceptions of patients about delivery of their
babies.
METHOD: One hundred and forty four out of 200 surveyed women answered consumer
orientated questions before and after delivery.
RESULTS: They were on the whole satisfied with antenatal classes (there seemed to
be a need for more information in the form of an on-the-ward postnatal class),
disliked the practice of perineal shaves (but did not object to enemas or rupture
of membranes) and felt they had adequate analgesia (although not for after-pains 
or the discomfort of haemorrhoids in the puerperium). Women who intend to deliver
in the more (western) conventional positions are less likely to be disappointed. 
Women expressed the desire to be more actively involved in some aspects of
delivery such as cutting the cord, putting the baby to the breast and being alone
with partner and baby immediately after delivery. Cardiotocography (CTG) is more 
reassuring than frightening. A "Birthing Room" is seen as a satisfactory
alternative to home delivery.

PMID: 3619764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. Aust Clin Rev. 1987 Jun;7(25):109-13.

Utilisation of acute general hospital beds by residents of five postcode zones in
Sydney.

Biro GA.

OBJECTIVES: To measure how often residents of five nearby postcode zones cross
regional boundaries for admission to The Ryde Hospital in Sydney. To survey
differences in bed-day utilisation by these residents.
METHOD: Special computer runs showing 1984 utilisation of bed-days.
RESULTS: Residents readily cross regional boundaries for admission. Residents of 
the five postcodes vary considerably in their utilisation of bed-days in various 
types of hospital, and also in total utilisation.

PMID: 3619763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Blood. 1987 Jun;69(6):1747-52.

Myeloablation with diaziquone: in vitro assessment.

Kushner BH, Siena S, Castro-Malaspina H.

The promising antineoplastic agent diaziquone is associated with prolonged
aplasia and rare instances of bone marrow necrosis, but only mild extramedullary 
toxicity. To explore the drug's potential as a myeloablative agent prior to bone 
marrow transplantation, we compared its effects on hematopoietic versus marrow
stromal cells. After short-term (one to six hours) or prolonged (three to seven
days) exposure to the drug, marrow was assayed for hematopoietic (CFU-Mix, BFU-E,
CFU-GM) and stromal (CFU-F) colony-forming cells and studied in long-term marrow 
culture (LTMC). One- and three-hour treatments produced little cytotoxicity, even
at 5000 ng/mL. After six-hour treatments with this dose, marrow was depleted of
CFU-Mix, BFU-E, and CFU-GM, but produced CFU-GM in LTMCs, indicating an ongoing
input of CFU-GM from a surviving pre-CFU-Mix population. In contrast, elimination
of the latter may be inferred from the absence of CFU-GM in LTMCs exposed for
three to seven days to diaziquone at only 150 ng/mL. Under these conditions,
CFU-F recovery was 40% and adherent stromal layers in LTMCs were similar to
untreated controls regarding rate of development and cellular composition. Our in
vitro pre-CFU-Mix-ablative regimen correlates with clinical data that show
prolonged but reversible myelosuppression at steady-state diaziquone plasma
levels of 101 +/- 10 ng/mL (mean +/- standard error of mean) during 7-day
constant infusions.IN CONCLUSION: hematopoietic cells are more sensitive than
marrow stromal cells to the dose- and highly time-dependent cytotoxicity of
diaziquone, a direct drug-induced noxious effect on the marrow microenvironment
is an unlikely cause of the isolated episodes of marrow necrosis after the use of
diaziquone in vivo, and prolonged infusion of diaziquone represents an attractive
means for achieving myeloablation in selected clinical situations.

PMID: 3555652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. Dig Dis Sci. 1987 Jun;32(6):583-92.

Esophageal manometry in 95 healthy adult volunteers. Variability of pressures
with age and frequency of "abnormal" contractions.

Richter JE, Wu WC, Johns DN, Blackwell JN, Nelson JL 3rd, Castell JA, Castell DO.

Although esophageal manometry is widely used in clinical practice, the normal
range of esophageal contraction parameters is poorly defined. Therefore, 95
healthy volunteers (mean age: 43 years; range 22-79 years) were studied with a
low-compliance infusion system and 4.5-mm-diameter catheter. All subjects were
given 10 wet swallows (5 cc H2O) and 38 subjects also were given 10 dry
swallows.RESULTS: Amplitude, but not duration, was greater (P less than 0.05)
after wet compared to dry swallows. Both distal mean contractile amplitude and
duration of wet swallows significantly increased with age and peaked in the
fifties. Double-peaked waves frequently occurred after both wet (11.3%) and dry
(18.1%) swallows, but triple-peaked waves were rare (less than 1%).
Nonperistaltic contractions were more common (P less than 0.001) after dry
compared to wet swallows (18.1% vs 4.1%). This difference resulted from frequent 
simultaneous contractions after dry swallows (12.6% vs 0.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Distal esophageal contractile amplitude and duration after wet
swallows increases with age. Triple-peaked waves and wet-swallow-induced
simultaneous contractions should suggest an esophageal motility disorder.
Double-peaked waves are a common variant of normal. Dry swallows have little use 
in the current evaluation of esophageal peristalsis.

PMID: 3568945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. EEG EMG Z Elektroenzephalogr Elektromyogr Verwandte Geb. 1987 Jun;18(2):82-7.

[Effect of the time of day on the EEG in cerebral arteriosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Wendland KL, Jonas B, Gundel A.

The study was conducted with three men and seven women, 72-84 years old,
characterized by psychopathological and clinical signs of cerebral
arteriosclerosis (A). All patients suffered from disorder of sleep-waking rhythm.
With one exception every experiment ran for five days during which
closed-eye-EEGs were registered at 8 a.m., 12 noon, 4 p.m., and 8 p.m. of the
alert but relaxed patients and recorded on tape for computer processing.
Simultaneously with every EEG registration the body temperature was measured. The
findings were compared statistically with corresponding data of a former study
conducted with ten healthy aged volunteers (G).RESULTS: The dominant
peak-frequency of the patients turned out significantly slower than that of the
volunteers.--While in healthy persons the peak frequency increased corresponding 
with the body temperature from the morning to the late afternoon or the early
evening respectively, the patients lacked such a correlation, although their
temperatures rose gradually in the normal way. In most of the patients the
peak-frequency had a remarkable small variety from day to day as well as from
scalp-position, and its circadian shift was poor. Psychopathologically these
subjects manifested primarily memory loss, general intellectual decline, and in
four cases disorientation. On the other hand the EEGs of three women showed
substantial greater variety of the peak-frequency from day to day and from
scalp-position to scalp-position. Besides the alterations during the day were
rather excessive, but lacking any appreciable correspondence with the undisturbed
circadian variations of the body temperature. In these three cases
psychopathologically personality changes preponderated.

PMID: 3111832  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1987 Jun;23(6):707-12.

Isolation and characterization of DNA from the plasma of cancer patients.

Stroun M(1), Anker P, Lyautey J, Lederrey C, Maurice PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Geneva,
Switzerland.

Ten out of 37 patients with advanced malignant diseases were found to have
extractable amounts of DNA in their plasma whereas no DNA could be detected in 50
normal controls. After its purification from the original nucleoprotein complex, 
DNA plasma levels ranging from 0.15 to 12 micrograms/ml were measured, the lowest
concentration detectable with our method being 0.1 microgram/ml. Knowing from
recovery experiments performed with 32P-DNA that the loss of DNA during the
extraction procedure is about 65%, the real concentration of DNA in the plasma
corresponds to about 3 times the given figures. The purified DNA was shown to be 
double-stranded and composed of fractions ranging from 21 kb to less than 0.5 kb,
as determined by agarose gel electrophoresis. All these fractions hybridized with
a 32P-labelled human DNA probe indicating the human origin of the bulk of the
circulating DNA.IN CONCLUSION: the finding of extractable amounts of DNA in the
plasma of 27% of the investigated cancer patients, and its absence from the
controls, suggests some correlation with malignancy.

PMID: 3653190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Jun;39(6):918-24.

[The significance of alpha-fetoprotein-negativity in the interstitial area of
total hydatidiform mole tissue].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshimatsu N, Hoshi K, Sato A, Munakata S, Fukushima T.

The presence of the fetal component is an important factor in explaining the
mechanism of the occurrence of the hydatidiform mole. But we have not confirmed
in which phase the fertilized becomes a fetus. Therefore the mechanism of the
occurrence of hydatidiform mole was investigated, using alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)
produced in the fetal liver and the yolk sac, as a parameter. Total hydatidiform 
moles, partial hydatidiform moles, chorionic villi obtained from normal pregnancy
artificially terminated and spontaneous abortion, and also the fetal liver,
umbilical cord, and intestine were examined. Paraffin sections of these materials
were examined for the presence of AFP by a peroxidase-anti-peroxidase
method.RESULTS: In the fetal liver, the gelatinous area of the umbilical cord the
lamina propria mucosae of the intestine, and the AFP were stained positive. In
the interstitial area of the chorionic villi of normal pregnancy, the AFP was
positive (78.3% n = 23). But in the villous epithelium, the AFP was negative. In 
the interstitial area of the chorionic villi of spontaneous abortion, the AFP was
positive (88.9% n = 9). But in the villous epithelium, the AFP was negative. In
the interstitial area of the partial hydatidiform mole, the AFP was positive
(100% n = 6). In the epithelial area, the AFP was negative. No localization of
the AFP was found in either the interstitial area or the epithelial area of the
cyst of total hydatidiform mole (100% n = 7). We concluded that the AFP exuded to
tissues derived from mesoblast by feto-chorionic circulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2440962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Z Kardiol. 1987 Jun;76(6):329-39.

[Change in the diameter of the coronary vessels following sublingual or
intravenous nifedipine administration correlated with the plasma level].

[Article in German]

Nellessen U, Rafflenbeul W, Jost S, Daniel W, Hecker H, Lichtlen PR.

The diameter changes of angiographically normal epicardial coronary arteries were
studied in 25 patients in correlation to nifedipine plasma levels. In group 1 (15
patients) 20 mg of s.l. nifedipine were administered. Measurements of the
coronary lumen size (automated contour detection system, accuracy 0.12 mm) and
detection of plasma levels (gas-chromatography) were done before and 10, 20 and
30 min after drug administration. According to the slope of nifedipine plasma
levels, patients were divided into group 1 A (n = 4) and 1 B (n = 11). Plasma
levels in both groups were: at 10 min, 27.8 +/- 9.8 and 13.5 +/- 4.5 ng/ml resp.;
P less than 0.05; at 20 min, 54.0 +/- 11.7 and 21.7 +/- 6.6 ng/ml resp.; P less
than 0.001; at 30 min, 79.1 +/- 9.3 and 28 +/- 9.8 ng/ml resp.; P less than
0.001. The corresponding diameter changes in A and B were: 7.3 +/- 5.1%/.-5.6 +/-
9.0% resp.; P less than 0.01; 11.4 +/- 4.1% and -4.5 +/- 11.3% resp.; P less than
0.01; 14.5 +/- 5.9% and 0.5 +/- 13.6% resp.; P less than 0.05. In group 2 (10
patients) 1 mg nifedipine was administered intravenously within 4 min.
Measurements were done at 1 min intervals during infusion as well as 7 and 15 min
after beginning and compared to a placebo group (n = 10). Peak plasma levels
amounted to 16.7 +/- 5.7 ng/ml after 7 min. The maximum coronary dilation was
reached after 4 min (verum 5.0 +/- 6.8%; placebo 3.2 +/- 3.6%). Significant
differences between both groups were observed after 7 min (verum 4.1 +/- 5.3%;
placebo -3.1 +/- 5.8%, P less than 0.05) and 15 min (verum 1.2 +/- 3.2%; placebo 
-6.2 +/- 8.4%; P less than 0.05).CONCLUSION: based on significantly different
plasma levels following sublingual application of 20 mg nifedipine a
classification of patients into "early-" and "late-coronary-responders" could be 
established. After intravenous infusion of 1 mg nifedipine peak plasma levels
were much lower than after sublingual application of 20 mg and coronary diameters
showed only a mild increase.

PMID: 3630312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Anaesthesist. 1987 May;36(5):228-32.

[Continuous Midazolam infusion for sedation of respirator patients].

[Article in German]

Behne M, Asskali F, Steuer A, Förster H.

Most intensive care (ICU) patients need pharmacological sedation during
ventilatory support. The short-acting drug midazolam might be preferable to
neuroleptic agents and opiates because of its anxiolytic and sedative properties.
The dosage of a drug given in a continuous infusion is based upon knowledge of
its clearance and of the function of concentration and effect.METHOD: A midazolam
infusion (7.5 or 15 mg/h) was given to 16 patients receiving ventilatory support 
for 24 h. Clearance was estimated using the rule Cl = R/C (R = rate of infusion, 
C = concentration in steady state). To estimate the concentration of midazolam
necessary for good sedation, the amount of supplementary injected neuroleptic
during midazolam infusion was compared with that of the day before. Plasma
cortisol and parameters of energy metabolism, electrolytes, and liver and kidney 
function were measured.
RESULTS: Patients with disease of abdominal organs showed the lowest values for
clearance (1.0-2.92 ml/min/kg). Some of the injured patients showed elevated
values for clearance (3.0-21.36 ml/min/kg). Elimination half-life ranged from
1.5-50 h. Changes in intestinal perfusion or cardiac output might be responsible 
for the wide range. For good sedation, plasma midazolam concentrations had to be 
above 600 ng/ml. Plasma cortisol levels were not affected by midazolam, nor were 
metabolism, electrolytes, or liver and kidney function.
CONCLUSION: Continuous infusion of midazolam is a useful way of sedation for ICU 
patients, but the wide range of clearance values must be considered.

PMID: 3631490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Anaesthesist. 1987 May;36(5):217-22.

[Comparative clinical studies of the hemodynamic parameters by anesthesia
combination with Nalbuphin (Nubain) and Fentanyl].

[Article in German]

Heintz-Bamberg D, Müller H, Dick W, Reiter G.

The narcotic agonist-antagonist nalbuphine is reported to act as a strong
analgesic with only minor respiratory depressant side-effects. Even in the
postoperative period, the pain-relieving properties of analgesic drugs are
reported to continue if the respiratory side-effects are being antagonized by
administering nalbuphine. It was the aim of this study to investigate the
analgesic properties of nalbuphine as compared to those of fentanyl, in
suppressing the hemodynamic responses due to endotracheal intubation and skin
incision. Furthermore, we are interested in studying postoperative analgesia and 
respiratory depression after using the two drugs during anesthesia.PATIENTS AND
METHODS: Forty-one patients undergoing general surgical procedures were randomly 
assigned to two groups in a double-blind study. The patients were between 18 and 
70 years old and belonged to ASA classes I-III. Patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, cerebral vascular disorders, hepatic or renal failure, or
those treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants
were excluded from the study, as were patients with a drug dependency. All
patients were premedicated with 25-50 mg each promethazine and pethidine.
Anesthesia was induced with either 60-70 mg nalbuphine or 0.3-0.35 mg fentanyl, 2
mg alcuronium, 0.01 mg/kg flunitrazepam, and 1-2 mg/kg thiopental. All patients
were intubated following 1-2 mg/kg succinylcholine. Five minutes following
intubation they received another 30-40 mg nalbuphine or 0.15-0.2 mg fentanyl
intravenously. Anesthesia was maintained with N2O:O2 2:1, alcuronium, and either 
nalbuphine or fentanyl and enflurane up to 1 vol.% or halothane up to 0.5 vol.%. 
Blood pressure, pulse rate, and arterial blood gases were measured at certain
intervals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3307521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Anaesthesist. 1987 May;36(5):203-9.

[Ro 15-1788 antagonizes reliably the Benzodiazepine effect after Flunitrazepam
combination anesthesias].

[Article in German]

Tolksdorf W, Pirwitz A, Bentzinger C, Pfeiffer J.

INTRODUCTION: The imidazobenzodiazepine Ro 15-1788 has been shown to block the
central effects of benzodiazepines without severe side effects in animals studies
and human volunteers. Benzodiazepine premedication and benzodiazepine/opioid
combinations are often used in anesthesiology. A prolonged benzodiazepine action 
in combination with narcotics can cause problems in the postoperative period such
as respiratory depression or aspiration of gastric contents due to reduced
vigilance. Therefore, a reversal of the central effects of benzodiazepines can be
of advantage postoperatively. This study was designed to compare the efficacy of 
Ro 15-1788 and placebo in reversing the central effects of flunitrazepam used to 
induce and maintain general anesthesia.
METHODS:
STUDY DESIGN: double blind, parallel groups, randomized, placebo-controlled
study. 60 patients of both sexes aged 20-65 years, ASA class I-II, who were to
undergo elective surgery under general anesthesia with an estimated duration of
90-150 min. Study procedure: Evening premedication: 1-2 mg flunitrazepam orally. 
Morning premedication: 7.5 mg midazolam orally. Monitoring: blood pressure, heart
rate, and ECG continuously. Induction of anesthesia: 0.2 mg fentanyl, 0.03-0.04
mg/kg flunitrazepam, 0.1 mg/kg pancuronium. Endotracheal intubation, mechanical
ventilation. Maintenance of anesthesia: N2O/O2 = 2:1, fentanyl, pancuronium, and 
flunitrazepam depending on clinical response. At the end of surgery and after
decurarization (neostigmine 2.5 mg and atropine 0.5 mg) and oxygenation the
patients were extubated. Now Ro 15-1788 or placebo in a 5% glucose solution (in
the case of Ro 15-1788: 1 ml = 0.1 mg active drug) were administered.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3115136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. Ann Intern Med. 1987 May;106(5):700-3.

Cough and wheezing from beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol are absent after
triamcinolone acetonide.

Shim CS, Williams MH Jr.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that patients with asthma who develop
cough and wheezing after the use of beclomethasone aerosol would have a better
tolerance for triamcinolone aerosol.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blinded, crossover trial.
SETTING: Pulmonary function laboratory.
PATIENTS: Volunteer sample of 24 patients attending an asthma clinic who had
developed cough, with or without wheezing, after inhaling beclomethasone aerosol.
All patients completed the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Aerosols were used in habitual manufacturers' preparations and
canisters, but both were administered in three puffs through the delivery system 
used for triamcinolone. The preparations differed in drug (beclomethasone
dipropionate or triamcinolone acetonide), propellant (trichloromonofluoromethane 
and dichlorodifluoromethane, or dichlorodifluoromethane alone, respectively) and 
dispersant (oleic acid or dehydrated alcohol, respectively). PATIENTS inhaled
three puffs of one aerosol on one day and three of the other on the next.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) was 
measured before and after each aerosol application. The FEV1 decreased a mean of 
17.7% from baseline after inhalation of beclomethasone, and 0.8% after
triamcinolone (difference, 16.9; 95% confidence limits, 12.36 to 21.34; p less
than 0.001). Coughs were counted after each puff. The mean number of coughs after
beclomethasone aerosol inhalation was 35.8, and after triamcinolone, 0.5
(difference, 35.3; 95% confidence limits, 22.62 to 47.98, p less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Asthmatic patients who are unable to inhale beclomethasone aerosol
due to cough or wheezing can inhale triamcinolone aerosol without difficulty. Our
investigation does not determine the exact cause of the coughing and wheezing
with the beclomethasone aerosol, but we suspect the dispersant as the source.

PMID: 3565967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Ann Intern Med. 1987 May;106(5):649-54.

Prolonging tamoxifen therapy for primary breast cancer. Findings from the
National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project clinical trial.

Fisher B, Brown A, Wolmark N, Redmond C, Wickerham DL, Wittliff J, Dimitrov N,
Legault-Poisson S, Schipper H, Prager D.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether prolonging the duration of tamoxifen
administration beyond the cessation of a combined chemotherapy regimen benefits
patients with primary breast cancer with positive findings in axillary nodes who 
benefit initially from the combined regimen.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized, nonconcurrent cohort study.
SETTING: National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, conducted in 68
institutions in North America.
PATIENTS: Women were included if they had breast cancer with positive nodes and
were aged 49 years or less with both estrogen and progesterone receptor levels of
10 fmol or more, aged 50 to 59 years with progesterone receptor levels of 10 fmol
or more, or aged 60 to 69 years. Two cohorts were compared: patients who were
randomly assigned to the tamoxifen arm of the adjuvant chemotherapy trial
(randomized patients) and women who were added to this arm after randomization
had ceased (registered patients). Three hundred seventy-seven women in each group
who were disease free at the end of the initial 2-year treatment period were
followed for an additional 3 years.
INTERVENTIONS: All received melphalan, fluorouracil, and tamoxifen (10 mg twice
daily by mouth) for 2 years. Registered patients (but not randomized patients)
were offered tamoxifen for a third year after the initial 2-year treatment
period, and 273 (72%) agreed.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Women receiving a third year of tamoxifen had a
better disease-free survival rate (odds ratio, 1.54; 95% confidence interval,
1.14 to 2.07; p = 0.004) and survival rate (odds ratio, 1.56; 95% Cl, 1.02 to
2.37; p = 0.04) through their fifth postoperative year. Women aged 50 years or
more benefited, but those aged 49 years or less did not.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefit of tamoxifen given to tamoxifen-responsive patients in
conjunction with melphalan and fluorouracil appears to be enhanced when the
tamoxifen treatment is continued beyond cessation of treatment with these agents.

PMID: 3551710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Ann Intern Med. 1987 May;106(5):655-62.

Chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy with chest radiation therapy in limited stage 
small cell lung cancer. A prospective, randomized trial.

Bunn PA Jr, Lichter AS, Makuch RW, Cohen MH, Veach SR, Matthews MJ, Anderson AJ, 
Edison M, Glatstein E, Minna JD, et al.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of concurrent chest radiation therapy on
response rate, recurrence, and treatment toxicity among patients with limited
stage small cell lung cancer who are receiving combination chemotherapy.
DESIGN: Randomized trial with a median follow-up of 57 months.
SETTING: A single government institution--the National Cancer Institute.
PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 96 patients with histologically confirmed small
cell lung cancer that was confined to the hemithorax of origin or mediastinal and
supraclavicular nodes, and which could be encompassed within a tolerable
radiation portal ("limited stage"). All patients were followed until death or the
end of the study period.
INTERVENTIONS: Chemotherapy: Cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and lomustine in
6-week cycles alternating with vincristine, adriamycin, and procarbazine in
6-week cycles, for a total of 48 weeks. Radiation therapy: Chest irradiation to
40 Gy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks, given simultaneously with the first
chemotherapy cycle.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The combined therapy led to a significantly higher
response rate (complete responses, 81%, compared with partial responses, 43%; 95%
Cl for the difference, 20% to 56%), significantly improved local control of the
chest tumor (p less than 0.001), and significantly longer survival (p less than
0.035) (median, 15.0 months, compared with 11.6 for chemotherapy alone). The
combined therapy produced significantly more myelosuppression, weight loss,
esophagitis, and pulmonary dysfunction. There were more infections and deaths
from toxicity in the combined treatment group, but the differences between groups
were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: A regimen of combined chemotherapy and chest radiation therapy given 
concurrently is superior to chemotherapy given alone in inducing remission and
prolonging survival in patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer, and
the benefit of combined therapy is reduced by its greater toxicity.

PMID: 3032033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Biochem J. 1987 May 1;243(3):789-95.

The interaction between the adenylate cyclase system and insulin-stimulated
glucose transport. Evidence for the importance of both cyclic-AMP-dependent and
-independent mechanisms.

Lönnroth P(1), Davies JI, Lönnroth I, Smith U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine II, Sahlgren's Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.

The counter-regulatory effect of adenosine, isoprenaline and selected cyclic AMP 
analogues on insulin-stimulated 3-O-methylglucose transport and insulin binding
were studied in rat fat-cells. Isoprenaline alone had no consistent effect on
glucose transport in the presence of maximally effective insulin concentrations. 
However, it decreased insulin binding by approx. 20% and increased EC50 (concn.
giving 50% of maximal stimulation) for insulin from 8 +/- 1 to 17 +/- 2 mu
units/ml. Adenosine deaminase (ADA) alone only exerted a slight effect, whereas
isoprenaline and ADA in combination consistently decreased the maximal effect of 
insulin on glucose transport, decreased insulin binding by approx. 30% and
markedly decreased insulin-sensitivity (EC50 61 +/- 8 mu units/ml). In cells from
pertussis-toxin-treated animals, isoprenaline alone decreased the insulin
response by approx. 75%, decreased insulin binding by approx. 45% and caused a
marked rightward shift in the dose-response curve for insulin (EC50 103 +/- 34 mu
units/ml). The importance of cyclic AMP for these effects was evaluated with the 
analogue N6-monobutyryl cyclic AMP, which is resistant to hydrolysis by the
phosphodiesterase. The importance of phosphodiesterase activation by insulin was 
studied with 8-bromo cyclic AMP, which is an excellent substrate for this enzyme.
N6-Monobutyryl cyclic AMP, in contrast with 8-bromo cyclic AMP, markedly impaired
insulin-sensitivity (EC50 approx. 100 mu units/ml). However, the maximal effect
of insulin was only slightly attenuated.IN CONCLUSION: (1) beta-adrenergic
stimulation and cyclic AMP markedly alter insulin-sensitivity, but not
responsiveness, mainly through post-receptor perturbations; (2) when cyclic AMP
is increased phosphodiesterase activation by insulin is a critical step to elicit
insulin action; (3) adenosine modulates the insulin-antagonistic effect of
beta-adrenergic stimulation via Ni (inhibitory nucleotide-binding protein)
through both cyclic-AMP-dependent and -independent mechanisms.

PMCID: PMC1147926
PMID: 2821992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Dig Dis Sci. 1987 May;32(5):487-93.

Effect of 15(R),15-methyl prostaglandin E2 and indomethacin on pancreatic
secretion in man.

Saad C, Dooley CP, Valenzuela JE.

In addition to gastric mucosal cytoprotective and antisecretory effects,
prostaglandin E2 has a beneficial effect on experimental pancreatitis in some
animal models, while prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors such as indomethacin and 
salicylates may induce pancreatitis at maximal doses. However, their effect on
human pancreas is unclear. For this reason we considered it necessary to
delineate their actions on human pancreatic secretion. Six healthy volunteers
were studied on six separate days. On day 1, against a background of 1 pmol/kg/hr
secretin, increasing doses of CCK were infused intravenously. On day 2,
increasing doses of an amino acid mixture were infused intraduodenally and both
studies were repeated on two occasions, following 100 micrograms 15(R), 15-methyl
prostaglandin E2 per os on one and following indomethacin 50 mg orally 12 and 1
hr prior to the study on the other. Both indomethacin and PGE2 had no significant
effect on pancreatic secretion in response to graded doses of CCK.
15(R),15-Methyl prostaglandin E2 and indomethacin caused a reduction of amylase
output in response to the higher doses of intraduodenal amino acids. The
prostaglandin E2 derivative also elicited a significant increase in basal
bicarbonate output.IN CONCLUSION: the acute effects of 15(R),15-methyl
prostaglandin E2 and indomethacin on human pancreatic secretion do not seem to
offer an explanation for the mechanisms of protection against experimental acute 
pancreatitis or an association with pancreatitis, respectively.

PMID: 2436865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. G Ital Cardiol. 1987 May;17(5):402-13.

[Usefulness of the electrophysiologic study in the prognostic evaluation of
patients with syncope of uncertain origin].

[Article in Italian]

Proclemer A(1), Gianfagna P, Fontanelli A, Bernardi G, Feruglio GA.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Cardiologia, Ospedale Civile di Udine.

Recurrent, sudden temporary loss of consciousness is a common clinical problem:
in the absence of electrocardiographic monitoring during a syncopal episode (S), 
abnormalities demonstrated by an electrophysiological study (ES) may suggest the 
etiology of S. We have performed a complete ES in 53 Pts (M. 38-F. 15, mean age
63 y.) with recurrent unexplained S (3.8 S/pt) by means of a standardized
protocol. Group I: 30 Pts (mean age 65 y, 3.6 S/pt) with structural heart
disease. Thirteen of these had abnormal ES findings: inducible ventricular
tachycardia in 6, prolonged HV interval in 7 (with bundle branch block), very
fast atrial flutter in one. Group II: 23 Pts (mean age 61 y., 3, 9 S/pt), without
organic heart disease. The ES was abnormal in 14 Pts showing a prolonged HV
interval in 11 (with bundle branch block), an intrahisian block in 1 and an
inducible AV nodal tachycardia with heart rate greater than 200/m' in one. Only
the Pts with abnormal ES were treated according to their condition with
amiodarone or with an implantable pacemaker. Three PTs with C.H.D. and normal ES 
successfully underwent by-pass surgery. During the follow-up (20 months) therapy 
based on ES provided symptomatic relief (no S) in 25 of 26 Pts with abnormal
electrophysiological study. Syncope persisted in 4 of 26 Pts in whom ES did not
define a mechanism of S. No sudden death in any Pt.CONCLUSIONS: ES was,
therefore, of diagnostic value in more than half of the patients with syncope of 
unknown cause and long-term treatment based on ES was successful in the
prevention of S (remission rate of 93% in patients treated with amiodarone or
pacemaker).

PMID: 3653598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. G Ital Cardiol. 1987 May;17(5):391-6.

[The course of residual stenosis after intracoronary thrombolysis].

[Article in Italian]

Franceschino V(1), Contini GM, Terrosu P, Delpini A, Pes R, Ibba GV.

Author information: 
(1)Divisione di Cardiologia, Ospedale Regionale, Sassari.

Clinical outcome after coronary thrombolysis are strictly related to the residual
stenosis. However, the natural history of this lesion is largely unknown. To
assess this topic we evaluated 25 patients who had coronary recanalization by
urokinase in acute myocardial infarction. Serial coronary angiograms were taken
immediately after fibrinolytic therapy, before hospital discharge and 1 year
later. Angiographically detected coronary reocclusion and/or new ischemic events 
were exclusion criteria. Angiographic analysis was performed at a five-fold
magnification. The followings were specifically evaluated: a) vessel contours at 
the site of the residual stenosis; b) luminal diameter reduction; c) presence of 
intraluminal filling defects.RESULTS: the vessel narrowing progressively improved
from the acute phase (percent of stenosis 92 +/- 7) to the hospital discharge (82
+/- 8%, p less than .01) and to 1 year follow-up (76 +/- 11%, p less than .001 vs
hospital discharge). Moreover, the residual stenosis appears to be "complicated" 
in early period (irregular contours with superimposed thrombus), but become
regular and "uncomplicated" at follow-up examination (smooth contours, hourglass 
configuration, no intraluminal filling defects).
IN CONCLUSION: a) the residual coronary stenosis is a dynamic process and may
improve at follow-up examination; b) a practical approach to the management of
the residual stenosis must take in account the natural history of the lesion to
give a correct indication for coronary surgery or PTCA.

PMID: 3653596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1987 May;14(5 Pt 2):1688-95.

[Bone metastasis in advanced breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Adachi I, Suzuki M, Tsuchihashi T, Yamaguchi K, Abe K.

A retrospective analysis was performed comparing the survival in 483 patients
with advanced breast cancer during the period from 1962 to 1986.RESULTS: Initial 
bone metastasis was found in 22%, and in 77% during course. The sites of bone
metastasis were found more frequent in lumbar, thoracic, pelvis, rib, extremity
and skull. Complications required with bone metastases were found in 19% of
hypercalcemia which serum calcium level was more than 11 mg/dl, 14% of bone
fracture, 10% sever spinal cord compression. Each complications caused by bone
metastases had influence on the quality of life, but it had not effect on the
patients survivals. Multidisciplinary treatment has been utilized as systemic
therapy, such as combined chemoendocrine therapy. As local intensive therapy, the
patients were treated with irradiation or surgical therapy. The patients with
hypercalcemia were treated with calcitonin and mithramycin. Those treatments were
useful for the prolongation of survival and the improvement of quality. As a
result of those therapies, recently, the survival has been significantly
prolonged. Especially, the survival in effective cases with those treatments was 
prolonged than the uncontrolled groups.

PMID: 2954509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1987 May;190(5):412-9.

[Treatment of choroid melanoma with a radioactive iodine 125 plaque: initial
results of a pilot study].

[Article in German]

Kreissig I, Stanowsky A, Feine U.

The present paper reports on the treatment of 9 choroidal melanomas with a
prominence of 5 to 8.7 mm, using iodine-125 plaque.FOLLOW-UP: 1-1 3/4 years.
Radiation dose per hour: 0.3-0.6 Gy, tumor apex 70 Gy, tumor basis 370 Gy; plaque
in situ 1 to 2 weeks. Localization of tumor: 2 X close to macula, 2 X extending
into macula, 1 X 1 mm from disc. Postoperative regression of all 9 melanomas, by 
51% after 1 year. Postoperatively no reduction in bulbus size, rubeosis iridis,
cataract, or optic atrophy; however, 2 X reduced visual acuity: 1 X temporary
(increase after laser coagulation of neovascularization), 1 X permanent (discrete
subretinal gliosis in residual macular half not extending into radiation scar).
Visual acuity 6 months postoperatively equal to that after 1-1 3/4 years and in 5
out of the 9 patients 20/100 to 20/30. An attempt is made to correlate the
anatomical and functional results with the "tumor surgery in small steps"
achieved with iodine-125 plaquing.

PMID: 3302513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Microb Ecol. 1987 May;13(3):173-91. doi: 10.1007/BF02024996.

Review: Microbial colonization of prosthetic devices.

Jacques M(1), Marrie TJ, Costerton JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

CONCLUSION: The threat of bacterial colonization and biofilm formation poses the 
most important limitation on the use and development of prosthetic devices in
human medicine. Data from the literature suggest that microbial adherence
effected by the glycocalyx is a fundamental factor in sepsis involving
biomaterials and that it may explain the resistance of such infections to host
defense mechanisms and to antibiotherapy. A full appreciation of the existence
and the consequences of the biofilm mode of bacterial growth is required so that 
we can both prevent and eliminate these protected microbial reservoirs.

PMID: 24213294  [PubMed]


1347. Respir Care. 1987 May;32(5):325-31.

Attrition in respiratory care: the role of stress versus the role of intrinsic
and extrinsic rewards.

Rawlins TD.

In this study, I sought to determine the contribution of potential stressors and 
intrinsic and extrinsic job rewards to the job satisfaction and attrition of
respiratory therapists.METHOD: The Stress Index, the Job Dimension Survey, and a 
demographic questionnaire were completed by 71 therapists in three large
metropolitan hospitals.
RESULTS: I determined by discriminant analysis that the predictor variables
contributing to the decision to leave the work force are dissatisfaction with
supervision and people on the job, and role, goal, and financial stress, whereas 
predictor variables for remaining in the field are performance comfort,
self-appreciation, proactivity, and regional aspects.
CONCLUSION: Although therapists credit the desire for more job satisfaction and
better salary with being responsible for their decision to leave the field, this 
study shows that dissatisfaction with supervision and co-workers and role, and
financial stress are more important.

PMID: 10315731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Undersea Biomed Res. 1987 May;14(3):263-76.

Components of the pressure required to breathe dense gases.

Van Liew HD.

To elucidate the impact of high gas density on airway flow (during inspiration
and expiration) and on gas acceleration (at end-inspiration and end-expiration), 
I simulated pressures for breathing in man with a) an equation of motion of the
respiratory system, b) the assumption that pressure to accelerate gas is directly
proportional to density, and c) five different assumptions concerning the
relationships among lung volume, density, and the pressure for flow. The results 
show that accelerative pressure is not an important fraction of the total
pressure with attainable densities, tidal volumes, and frequencies when it is
assumed that lung volume changes as a sine-wave function of time. High
accelerative pressure has a minor effect of making intrapleural pressure tend to 
be in phase with flow, as it is with high flow resistance. Alternate assumptions 
about pressure to cause flow led to small changes in the patterns of pressure
with time, but had little effect on the overall picture.CONCLUSIONS: Effects of
lung volume and density on flow pressure can be characterized successfully in
several ways, and the large density effect on flow pressure dominates the energy 
requirement for breathing in dense-gas environments.

PMID: 3629741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Apr;106(4):503-6.

Digoxin for converting recent-onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. A
randomized, double-blinded trial.

Falk RH, Knowlton AA, Bernard SA, Gotlieb NE, Battinelli NJ.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to determine whether digoxin is effective in converting atrial
fibrillation of recent onset to normal sinus rhythm.
DESIGN: randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial with a maximum
18-hour treatment period.
SETTING: emergency room and medical floors of a non-referral city hospital.
PATIENTS: consecutive sample of 36 patients with atrial fibrillation of 7 days'
duration or less, not on digitalis glycoside or anti-arrhythmic agents, with
ventricular rate between 85 to 175 beats/min, without evidence of heart failure, 
acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, preexcitation syndrome,
thyrotoxicosis, hypokalemia, renal impairment, or severe metabolic disturbances.
INTERVENTIONS: digoxin solution in capsules or identical placebo, given in doses 
of 0.6, 0.4, 0.2, and 0.2 mg, at 0, 4, 8, and 14 hours, respectively, or until
conversion to sinus rhythm, whichever occurred first. Continuous
electrocardiographic recording by Holter monitor.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: nine of eighteen patients receiving digoxin and 8 
of 18 receiving placebo had a return to sinus rhythm within 18 hours of study
entry (95% confidence interval for the difference in proportions, -11% to 22%).
Mean time to conversion was 5.1 hours in the digoxin group and 3.3 in the placebo
group (95% Cl, -3.6 to 7.0 hours).
CONCLUSIONS: spontaneous reversion to sinus rhythm is common in patients with
atrial fibrillation of recent onset. Digitalization was not shown to affect the
likelihood of reversion to sinus rhythm, and thus cannot be recommended for this 
purpose in patients with atrial fibrillation.

PMID: 3548521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Apr;106(4):497-503.

Fish-oil fatty acid supplementation in active rheumatoid arthritis. A
double-blinded, controlled, crossover study.

Kremer JM, Jubiz W, Michalek A, Rynes RI, Bartholomew LE, Bigaouette J, Timchalk 
M, Beeler D, Lininger L.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: to determine the efficacy of fish-oil dietary supplements in
active rheumatoid arthritis and their effect on neutrophil leukotriene levels.
DESIGN: nonrandomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial with
14-week treatment periods and 4-week washout periods.
SETTING: academic medical center, referral-based rheumatology clinic.
PATIENTS: forty volunteers with active, definite, or classical rheumatoid
arthritis. Five patients dropped out, and two were removed for noncompliance.
INTERVENTIONS: treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, slow-acting
antirheumatic drugs, and prednisone was continued. Twenty-one patients began with
a daily dosage of 2.7 g of eicosapaentanic acid and 1.8 g of docosahexenoic acid 
given in 15 MAX-EPA capsules (R.P. Scherer, Clearwater, Florida), and 19 began
with identical-appearing placebos. The background diet was unchanged.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: the following results favored fish oil placebo
after 14 weeks: mean time to onset of fatigue improved by 156 minutes (95%
confidence interval, 1.2 to 311.0 minutes), and number of tender joints decreased
by 3.5 (95% Cl, -6.0 to -1.0). Other clinical measures favored fish oil as well
but did reach statistical significance. Neutrophil leukotriene B4 production was 
correlated with the decrease in number of tender joints (Spearman rank
correlation r=0.53; p less than 0.05). There were no statistically significant
differences in hemoglobin level, sedimentation rate, or presence of rheumatoid
factor or in patient-reported adverse effects. An effect from the fish oil
persisted beyond the 4-week washout period.
CONCLUSIONS: fish-oil ingestion results in subjective alleviation of active
rheumatoid arthritis and reduction in neutrophil leukotriene B4 production.
Further studies are needed to elucidate mechanisms of action and optimal dose and
duration of fish-oil supplementation.

PMID: 3030173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Clin Genet. 1987 Apr;31(4):228-42.

Albinism, or the NOACH syndrome (the book of Enoch c.v. 1-20).

van Dorp DB.

After a 4-year multidisciplinary study of albinism our findings will be presented
here. Over a hundred albinos were examined, together with their heterozygote
family members. Given this substantial patient and subject sample we were
provided with the opportunity to: evaluate the results of standard diagnostic
procedures, for example pedigree analysis, ocular and clinical examination;
determine the diagnostic value of biochemical, and ultrastructural tests; and
develop a new and viable albino diagnostic protocol, particularly for
electrophysiological examination. In the conclusions the following subjects are
in order:DIAGNOSIS: Our most important finding up till now is that normally
pigmented people who do not look like albinos can in fact be albinos.
DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS: It appears that patients with autosomal recessive
albinism can be normally pigmented, and patients with X-linked albinism can be
severely hypopigmented. We therefore propose to abandon the terms oculo-cutaneous
albinism (OCA), and X-linked ocular albinism (XOA), and use the terms autosomal
recessive albinism, and X-linked albinism instead. X-linked albinism
Forsius-Eriksson type (XOAF): We assume that XOAF does not represent a true form 
of albinism.
CLASSIFICATION: Our results indicate that the phenotypical albino classification,
which was a base for Witkop et al. (1978) to also obtain a genetical
classification, supported by the hairbulb test, has not proved to be useful for
the classification of tyrosinase negative (TNOCA), tyrosinase positive
oculocutaneous albinism (TPOCA), and autosomal recessive ocular albinism (AROA)
as genetically distinct forms. Prevalence: Our prevalence estimate for all forms 
of albinism is at least 1:15,000, about 10% of the albinos have X-linked
albinism.
DEFINITION: We want to modify the albino definition as a hereditary and
congenital inborn error of metabolism related to the pigment cell, and resulting 
in a systemic disorder that is characterized by anomalies of eyes, and
hypopigmentation in most cases or absence of pigment in skin, hair, and eyes, and
of which the neuro-anatomical consequences are the most characteristic.

PMID: 3109790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1987 Apr;13(4):517-24.

Minimal long-term cardiopulmonary dysfunction following treatment for Hodgkin's
disease.

Watchie J, Coleman CN, Raffin TA, Cox RS, Raubitschek AA, Fahey T, Hoppe RT, Van 
Kessel A.

We studied the long term cardiopulmonary function, at rest and during exercise,
of 57 patients who were at least 1 year (mean 5 years) post-treatment for
Hodgkin's disease. To establish the maximum degree of dysfunction we studied 40
patients who had extensive intrathoracic disease treated with radiotherapy alone 
(Exten-X; n = 20) or combined modality therapy (Exten-XC; n = 20). Patients
without intrathoracic disease given either prophylactic mantle therapy (Proph-X, 
n = 10) or no chest irradiation (CONTROL: n = 7) were used as controls. An
abnormal electrocardiogram, by virtue of a conduction defect, was observed in
seven patients, six in the Exten-X or Exten-XC groups. Borderline abnormalities
including ST-T changes, prolonged QT interval, or axis deviation occurred in 14
patients distributed evenly throughout the groups. Resting mean pulmonary
function test values were normal in all treatment groups. Exercise tolerance, as 
indicated by peak oxygen consumption (VO2), was significantly lower for the
Exten-XC group compared to Proph-X (p less than 0.01). However, the mean value of
VO2 for group Exten-XC was only 15% below that predicted. Of the 12 patients with
abnormally low VO2 (greater than 20% below their predicted value), 11 were in the
Exten-X or Exten-XC group with no difference between the two groups. Patients who
received radiotherapy to at least one lung field, using either the thin lung
block technique or open field irradiation, had significantly lower exercise
tolerance than those treated with full thickness blocks (p less than 0.05).
Despite these abnormalities only a single patient complained of marked dyspnea.
We conclude that extensive treatment to the mantle field, especially when
followed by chemotherapy in patients with extensive intrathoracic Hodgkin's
disease, can result in minimal cardiopulmonary dysfunction in approximately
one-third of patients.

PMID: 2435687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1987 Apr;64(4):849-55.

Factors affecting suppression of endogenous thyrotropin secretion by thyroxine
treatment: retrospective analysis in athyreotic and goitrous patients.

Bartalena L, Martino E, Pacchiarotti A, Grasso L, Aghini-Lombardi F, Buratti L,
Bambini G, Breccia M, Pinchera A.

Factors affecting TSH suppression by L-T4 administration were retrospectively
evaluated in 452 patients: 180 who were athyreotic after total thyroidectomy and 
remnant radioiodine ablation for differentiated thyroid carcinoma and 272 with
nontoxic diffuse or nodular goiter. All patients were considered clinically
euthyroid. TSH secretion was assessed by iv TRH stimulation testing. The T4 dose 
associated with an undetectable basal serum TSH level and no increase in serum
TSH after TRH administration (suppressive dose) averaged 2.7 +/- 0.4 (SD)
micrograms/kg body weight (BW)/day in athyreotic patients and 2.1 +/- 0.3
micrograms/kg BW/day in goitrous patients (P less than 0.001). The 25th-75th
percentile intervals were 2.5-2.9 micrograms/kg BW/day for athyreotic patients
and 1.9-2.3 micrograms/kg BW/day for goitrous patients. The suppressive dose of
T4 was dependent in both groups on patient age, younger patients needing higher
doses than older patients. The duration of treatment also proved to be an
important parameter, since in both groups the percentage of patients with
suppressed TSH secretion increased if TRH testing was carried out after at least 
6 months after the initiation of therapy. Serum total T4, total T3, free T3
(FT3), free T4 (FT4) index, and FT3 index values did not differ in the two groups
and were significantly higher (P less than 0.001) than in normal subjects. Mean
serum FT4 was significantly higher in athyreotic patients than in goitrous
patients with suppressed TSH secretion. Among athyreotic patients with suppressed
TSH secretion, 24% had elevated serum FT4 and FT3, and 47% had elevated serum FT4
alone. Of goitrous patients with suppressed TSH secretion, 20% had elevated serum
FT4 and FT3, and 27% had elevated serum FT4 alone. On the other hand, 35% of
athyreotic patients and 14% of goitrous patients whose TSH secretion was not
suppressed had elevated serum FT4. Serum sex hormone-binding globulin
concentrations were measured in 3 groups of goitrous women. Values above normal
limits were found in 13/26 patients (50%) with high serum FT4 and FT3, in 4/30
patients (13%) with elevated serum FT4 alone, and in 1/25 patients (4%) with
normal FT4 and FT3.IN CONCLUSION: TSH suppression requires daily doses of T4
between 2.5 and 2.9 micrograms/kg BW in athyreotic patients and between 1.9 and
2.3 micrograms/kg BW in goitrous patients, with appropriate adjustments in
relation to the age of the patient; Assessment of the adequacy of treatment
should not be carried out before 6 months after the institution of therapy.

PMID: 3818906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Apr;61(4):939-410.

[Cone-shaped epiphyses in the phalanges of the hand--a statistical and
experimental study].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue H.

To study the incidence of cone-shaped epiphysis (CSE) among Japanese children,
roentgenograms of 1,391 hands in 985 children including 600 normal individuals
(621 hands), 325 cases with various hand malformations (650 hands) and 60 cases
with various systemic diseases (120 hands) were reviewed. A series of animal
experiments was carried out to produce a similar pathological picture, by
partially interrupting the circulation in the proximal portion of the tibia in
young rabbits.RESULTS: 1. CSE was found in 13% of the normal individuals with
female predominance (female/male = 2.3). The most common site was the middle
phalanx of the little finger. In the hands with congenital malformation or
systemic diseases, the overall incidence of CSE was not significantly higher than
in normal hands, but the distribution and shape were somewhat different. 2. The
animal experiments suggested that a circulatory disturbance of the growth plate
may lead to the formation of CSE.

PMID: 3624965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Rev Fr Gynecol Obstet. 1987 Apr;82(4):281-4.

[Treatment of acute salpingitis with a combination of augmentin and synthetic
tetracycline or augmentin alone].

[Article in French]

Henry-Suchet J, Douyeb B.

41 cases of acute salpingitis were treated: either with the combination Augmentin
+ Tetracycline (A + T) including 21 severe cases treated intravenously for 4
days, then per os and 10 moderate cases treated per os from the beginning-or by
Augmentin alone (A) per os for 10 other moderate cases. An accurate
bacteriological diagnosis was made before treatment and, in case of failure, most
often by celioscopy. A Chlamydia serology was performed. Patients were seen again
after 8 days (41 cases), one month (39 cases) and several months (32
cases).RESULTS: A Chlamydia infection was found responsible, by culture or
serology, in one out of 2 cases; only one germ was found in 14 cases, 2 germs in 
21 cases and none in 7 cases. The association A + T was effective in all moderate
cases at 8 and 30 days; in severe forms, there was a failure at 8 days and 4
others at 30 days or 17%. Augmentin alone per os caused 5 failures out of 10
cases at 8 days. No new failure was observed after several months in cases cured 
at 30 days. The association A + T may be recommended as very effective in
moderate forms of acute salpingitis.

PMID: 3589368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. Z Kardiol. 1987 Apr;76(4):239-46.

[Left ventricular function assessment using a floating catheter in dynamic and
isometric (handgrip) stress in normal and heart infarct patients].

[Article in German]

Valdivieso E, Busch M, Plänker E, Blümchen G.

Left ventricular function was examined in a control group of 8 healthy men
(average age 26 +/- 6.2 years) and was compared to 40 post-MI patients (average
age 50 +/- 8.2 years, 39 men, one woman). It was measured using the
floating-catheter technique under isometric exercise (50% of maximal voluntary
contraction using both hands) and also under dynamic exercise (progressive supine
bicycle-ergometry). In the control group, there was a significant increase in
heart rate, arterial blood-pressure and the average PCP from rest to isometric
exercises. PCP was noted to stay within its normal range (less than 20 mm Hg)
under both modes of exercise. There was no significant difference comparing the
effects of dynamic and isometric exercise (isometric: PCP 13.3 +/- 3.3 mm Hg;
dynamic: PCP 11.8 +/- 3.6 mm Hg). In Group I (20 post-MI-patients showing
ischemia during exercise-ECG) PCP stayed normal under isometric exercise (PCP
18.8 +/- 10.2 mm Hg). Under dynamic exercise, their PCP increased up to a
pathological level (PCP 24.9 +/- 10.1 mm Hg, p less than 0.01). In Group II (20
post-MI-patients with lacking proof of ischemia during exercise-ECG) there was no
significant difference between the increase in PCP under isometric vs dynamic
exercise (isometric: PCP 18.7 +/- 13.4 mm Hg; dynamic: PCP 18.5 +/- 10.0 mm
Hg).CONCLUSION: The results lead to the conclusion that isometric exercise alone 
(50% of maximal voluntary contraction using both hands, handgrip) can replace
dynamic exercise in the diagnosis of LV malfunction in post-MI patients who do
not show ischemia during exercise-ECG.

PMID: 3604376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1987 Mar 15;42(6):170-2.

[Echocardiography in clinically suspected chronic cor pulmonale].

[Article in German]

Schmidt H, Kirsten D, Pielesch W.

In a prospective study the echocardiography (M-mode-and two dimensional
methodology) as well as the electrocardiography were tested in 40 patients with
chronic bronchopulmonary diseases and suspicion of chronic cor pulmonale
concerning their statements about right-ventricular hypertrophy and dilatation of
the right-sided cavities of the heart.RESULTS: In the question of
right-ventricular hypertrophy the electrocardiography showed only a slight
sensitiveness of 0.125. However, the echocardiographic criteria of the
right-ventricular hypertrophy and of the dilatation of the right-sided cavities
of the heart a sensitiveness of 0.809 and a specificity of 0.750. With only 3 out
of 40 echocardiograms which could not be evaluated for reasons of the image
quality the rate of the success of the echocardiographic investigation of 0.925
was significantly high in the group of patients who are difficult to be examined 
in this respect.

PMID: 2955582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Calcif Tissue Int. 1987 Mar;40(3):119-25.

Influence of nutritional factors on calcium-regulating hormones and bone loss.

Lukert BP, Carey M, McCarty B, Tiemann S, Goodnight L, Helm M, Hassanein R,
Stevenson C, Stoskopf M, Doolan L.

Erratum in
    Calcif Tissue Int 1987 Jun;40(6):357.

The relationships between nutritional factors, calcium regulating hormones, and
bone density were evaluated in three groups of normal subjects in rural southeast
Kansas. Dietary intake of calcium (Ca), phosphorous (P), protein, and vitamin D; 
and serum 25OHD, Ca, P, parathyroid hormone (iPTH), and bone density (distal 1/3 
radius) were measured in 29 elderly women, 35 elderly men, and 50 perimenopausal 
women. Measurements were repeated 5 years and 4 years later respectively in 16
elderly women and 15 elderly men. The r values for significant regression
correlations for each group were as follows: perimenopausal: bone density and
dietary Ca:P--r = .29, iPTH and 25OHD--r = -.38; elderly women: 25OHD and dietary
Vitamin D(D)--r = .58, change in bone density (delta BD) and initial bone density
(BDI)--r = -.71, delta BD and serum 25OHD--r = -.60, serum calcium and age--r =
-.42; elderly men: Serum 25OHD and D--r = .61, iPTH and 25OHD--r = -.43, iPTH and
serum phosphorous--r = .59.CONCLUSIONS: The more adequate the state of vitamin D 
nutriture, the lower the serum iPTH in perimenopausal women and elderly men and
the less bone loss in elderly women. The Ca:P ratio in the diet may be important 
in maintaining bone density in perimenopausal women.

PMID: 3105841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. G Ital Cardiol. 1987 Mar;17(3):195-200.

[Incidence and clinical significance of involvement of the right ventricle in
acute inferior myocardial infarction].

[Article in Italian]

Cuccia C, Gei P, Volpini M, Franzoni P, Giubbini R, Terzi A, Pagnoni N, Bonaldi
E, Riva S.

The purpose of our study was to evaluate, with noninvasive procedures, the
incidence and the clinical picture of right ventricular involvement in patients
with acute transmural inferior myocardial infarction. Our study group was
constituted of 107 consecutive patients admitted to our Coronary Care Unit within
10 hours from the onset of symptoms; in every patient a standard 12-leads ECG and
the precordial leads V3R and V4R were obtained at admission in CCU and then every
12 hours. 80 patients underwent B-mode echocardiographic evaluation within 36
hours and in 93 patients a myocardial scintigraphy was performed, between the
48th and 72nd hour from the onset of chest pain, 1-2 hours after injection of
Tc-99m-pyrophosphate.RESULTS: 45 patients (42.1%) had ECG positive for right
ventricular infarction, 49 patients (51.6%) had positive Tc-99m-pyrophosphate
scintigraphy and 24 patients (30%) positive echocardiography. By using the
positivity of ECG and another method at least, patients were separated into 2
groups: group A (associated inferior and right infarction) was constituted of 45 
patients, and group B (isolated inferior infarction) was constituted of 62
patients. In group A we noted a higher incidence of hypotension (systolic blood
pressure less than 100 mmHg) and oliguria (less than 30 ml/h)- p less than 0.01-,
of 2nd and 3rd A-V blocks-p less than 0.001- and primary ventricular fibrillation
-p less than 0.01. The incidence of parossistic atrial fibrillation, severe
bradycardia or SA blocks and of mortality was not statistically different between
the two groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3038648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1987 Mar;69(3):442-9.

The use of urokinase in ischemic replanted extremities in rats.

Zdeblick TA, Shaffer JW, Field GA.

We compared the efficacy of intra-arterial infusion of urokinase, a fibrinolytic 
agent, with that of intra-arterial infusion of nitrendipine, a peripheral
calcium-channel blocking agent, in preventing the no-reflow phenomenon in rats
after prolonged ischemia at room temperature. Urokinase increased the survival of
the limbs after both four and five hours of ischemia at room temperature to 100
per cent compared with 50 and 20 per cent, respectively, in untreated controls.
Nitrendipine significantly increased the blood flow but failed to significantly
increase the survival of the limb. Scanning electron microscopy was used to
assist in the evaluation of the endothelium of the vessels. The etiological
mechanism of the no-reflow phenomenon appears to be that ischemia damages the
endothelial cells, causing impairment of the fibrinolytic system, retraction of
the endothelial membrane, exposure of the subintimal collagen, and
fibrin-platelet deposition. Thrombosis of the vessels ensues, resulting in the
no-reflow phenomenon.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Experimentally, intra-arterial infusion 
of urokinase increased the survival of the limb in replanted extremities that
were subjected to ischemia. This effectively lengthened the safe limit of
ischemia at room temperature before microsurgical replantation or elective
free-tissue transfer. Clinical trials of the use of intra-arterial fibrinolytic
agents for the treatment of revascularized tissue are indicated.

PMID: 3818707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Mar;39(3):447-54.

[Study on general anesthesia for cesarean section--condition of ventilation and
inhaled O2 concentration].

[Article in Japanese]

Abe S.

The effects of ventilation on the fetus during general anesthesia for elective
cesarean section were evaluated.METHOD: 62 healthy parturients (37-42 weeks) were
divided into two groups, 40 received general anesthesia (G group) and 22 received
spinal anesthesia (C group). All were given pre-operative infusion, journey tilt 
position and LUDD application. The G group was further divided according to the
combination of O2 concentration and respiratory rate. General anesthesia was
maintained by N2O-O2-halothane (0.5%). The C group was given 0.3% dibucaine with 
100% O2 inhalation. ABM was used to monitor blood pressure, pulse rate, EMG, EEG,
NMT and EtCO2. Maternal arterial blood (MA) and umbilical arterial and venous
blood (UA, UV) were taken at delivery for measurement of PO2, PCO2, pH and B.E..
RESULTS: No significant change in blood pressure was found. There were positive
correlations in EtCO2, MAPCO2 and UVPCO2. MAPCO2 decreased when the respiratory
rate was increased. UVPCO2 and UVPO2 were not affected when MAPCO2 was below
23mmHg. When the O2 concentration was increased, MAPO2 also increased. Thus,
pre-operative infusion, journey tilt position and LUDD application help to
prevent hypotension. ABM, and especially, EtCO2, provides useful information.
Slight hyperventilation and hyperoxygenation are better for the fetus.

PMID: 3559330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1987 Feb 27;112(9):331-4.

[Thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarct. An improved long-term prognosis
following balloon dilatation].

[Article in German]

Schwarz F, König B, Tillmanns H, Schuler G, Manthey J, Dietz R, Kübler W,
Olschewski M, Scheurlen H.

A systemic and intracoronary thrombolytic treatment was carried out in 217
patients with acute transmural myocardial infarction between March 1980 and March
1985. 141 patients were only treated with thrombolysis, and 76 were additionally 
treated by balloon dilation in the same session. Indications for additional
balloon dilation were unsuccessful thrombolysis as well as a residual stenosis of
more than 50% after primarily successful thrombolysis. Age, sex, proportion of
patients with anterior and posterior wall infarction as well as with 1, 2 and
3-vessel disease did not significantly differ in the two groups. The result of
therapy (complete reperfusion) was less after thrombolysis than after
thrombolysis with balloon dilation (63% as compared to 88%, P less than 0.0003). 
The patients who were only treated with thrombolysis had a more unfavorable
three-year actuarial survival than those in whom thrombolysis and balloon
dilation were carried out (70% as compared to 90%, P less than 0.02).CONCLUSION: 
additional balloon dilation in thrombolytic treatment of acute transmural
myocardial infarction improves the long-term prognosis.

PMID: 2949964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Experientia. 1987 Feb 15;43(2):201-2.

Bombesin promotes pancreatic growth in suckling rats.

Papp M, Dobronyi I, Varga G, Scarpignato C.

The pancreatic growth promoting effect of long term administration of bombesin
was investigated in suckling rats. The authors showed that bombesin given in 10
micrograms/kg b.wt doses s.c. every 8 h for 10 days from the day of parturition
stimulated pancreatic growth: it increased pancreatic weight, protein and DNA
content, trypsin and amylase activity and trypsin/DNA ratio.CONCLUSION: Bombesin 
is an effective stimulator of pancreatic growth in suckling rats.

PMID: 3817106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Am J Physiol. 1987 Feb;252(2 Pt 2):F232-9.

NH3 and NH4+ transport by rabbit renal proximal straight tubules.

Garvin JL, Burg MB, Knepper MA.

Isolated perfused S2 proximal straight tubules from rabbits spontaneously
secreted ammonia (-1.34 pmol X mm-1 X min-1) and absorbed bicarbonate (49.3 pmol 
X mm-1 X min-1) when perfusate and bath solutions contained 1 mM NH4Cl and 25 mM 
bicarbonate (pH 7.4). The NH3 concentration in the collected fluid was on average
40% lower than that of the bath as a consequence of a lower pH in the lumen. To
test whether diffusion of NH3 down the bath-to-lumen NH3 concentration gradient
could account for the measured ammonia secretion, we measured the permeabilities 
to NH3 (1.6 X 10(-2) cm/s) and NH4+ (4.5 X 10(-5) cm/s). From these values, we
calculated predicted rates of passive NH3 secretion (-3.6 pmol X mm-1 X min-1)
and passive NH4+ absorption (0.9 pmol X mm-1 X min-1). The predicted rate of net 
ammonia secretion exceeded the measured rate, indicating that passive NH3
secretion can fully account for the measured flux. In additional experiments,
10(-4) M acetazolamide in bath and perfusate inhibited net bicarbonate absorption
by approximately 80%, but the rate of ammonia secretion was
unaffected.CONCLUSIONS: S2 proximal straight tubules spontaneously secrete
ammonia as required for generation of a corticomedullary ammonia concentration
gradient by counter-current multiplication. Diffusion of NH3 down a concentration
gradient created by luminal acidification can account for the ammonia secretion. 
A substantial passive lumen-to-bath backflux of NH4+ occurs. Acetazolamide does
not inhibit ammonia secretion.

PMID: 3812738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Contraception. 1987 Feb;35(2):189-96.

Subjective perception of bleeding and serum ferritin concentration in long-term
users of Norplant.

Faundes A, Tejada AS, Brache V, Alvarez F.

Serum ferritin was measured in 4 groups of long-term users of NORPLANT implants. 
The users were divided according to their own subjective perception of bleeding: 
a random sample of 46 one year active users; 30 active users who had increased
bleeding; 39 women who had increased bleeding and had the implants removed; 28
active or terminated users who had reduced bleeding. These four groups were
compared with a control group of 68 new acceptors of any method at the same
clinic who met the criteria for use of NORPLANT. The mean age, parity, years of
schooling and family income were similar for the 5 groups. Mean hematocrit for
all NORPLANT groups were significantly higher than the control group. About half 
of the NORPLANT subjects and controls with normal hematocrit had ferritin levels 
below 11 ng/ml. The proportion of subjects with ferritin less than 11.0 ng/ml
were: Group 1) 48%; 2) 63%; 3) 77%; 4) 36% andCONTROLS: 57%. Mean iron stores for
all NORPLANT users did not differ significantly from those of a demographically
similar control group. Significant differences were, however, observed in two
subgroups of NORPLANT users. Those women who had increased bleeding and requested
implant removal had lower mean ferritin levels and those who perceived decreased 
bleeding as a result of NORPLANT use had higher ferritin concentration.

PIP: Serum ferretin was measured in 4 groups of long-term users of NORPLANT
implants. The users were divided according to their own subjective perception of 
bleeding: 1) A random sample of 46 1-year active users; 2) 30 active users who
had increased bleeding and had the implants removed; 4) 28 active or terminated
users who had reduced bleeding. These 4 groups were compared with a control group
of 68 new acceptors of any method at the same clinic who met the same criteria
for use of NORPLANT. The mean age, parity, years of schooling, and family income 
were similar for the 5 groups. Mean hematocrit for NORPLANT were significantly
higher than the control group. About 1/2 of the NORPLANT subjects and controls
with normal hematocrit had ferretin levels llng/ml. The proportion of subjects
with ferretin 11.0ng/ml were: Group 1) 48%; 2) 63%; 3) 77%; 4) 36%; and controls:
57%. Mean iron scores for all NORPLANT users did not differ significantly from
those of a demographically similar control group. Significant differences were,
however, observed in 2 subgroups of NORPLANT users. Those women who had increased
bleeding and requested implant removal had lower mean ferretin levels and those
who perceived decreased bleeding as a result of NORPLANT use had a higher
ferratin concentration.
PMID: 3109804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. G Ital Cardiol. 1987 Feb;17(2):120-6.

Myocarditis and cardiomyopathy: diagnosis by endomyocardial biopsy.

Arbustini E, Gavazzi A, Pucci A, Dealessi F, Angoli L, Mussini A, Grasso M,
Montemartini C, Specchia G, Magrini U.

To investigate the incidence of myocarditis, 30 patients, with unexplained
congestive heart failure, underwent endomyocardial biopsy. For each case three to
five samples were examined on light and electron microscopy. Inflammatory
infiltrates and injury to adjacent myocytes consistent with myocarditis were
detected in 3 of the 30 cases (10%). Changes attributable to cardiomyopathy were 
found in the remaining 27 cases. Two of the three patients with biopsy-proven
myocarditis were treated with prednisone and azathioprine. Their control biopsies
six months later showed interstitial fibrosis and absence of inflammatory
infiltrates. They clinically improved but hemodynamic and angiocardiographic
patterns failed to show the expected improvement. The third patient affected by
myocarditis died two weeks later.IN CONCLUSION: in our series of patients with
unexplained congestive heart failure, the incidence of biopsy-proven myocarditis 
resulted low (10%). The results of the immunosuppressive treatment in two
patients with myocarditis were unconclusive. Therefore the effectiveness of such 
therapy should be confirmed in a larger number of patients.

PMID: 3609614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Horm Metab Res. 1987 Feb;19(2):76-9.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme activity decreases during fasting.

Butkus NE, Burman KD, Smallridge RC.

Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity varies directly with thyroid
hormone levels in states of altered thyroid function. Because T3 levels decrease 
during fasting, ACE activity was examined to ascertain if it was reduced in this 
low T3 condition. Eighteen obese euthyroid subjects were hospitalized and placed 
on a weight-maintaining diet for 4 days. Nine subjects (Group 1) underwent a fast
(50 kcal/day) for 8 days. Nine (Group 2) subjects received T3 (5 micrograms q 3
h) during an identical fast. Weight loss was identical in both groups (-4.4 kg). 
Serum T3 fell in Group 1 from 104 +/- 8 to 50 +/- 4 ng/d/(p less than .05) but
was unchanged in Group 2 (114 +/- 11 ng/dl fed vs. 120 +/- 14 ng/dl fasted).
Blood pressures fell significantly in Group 1 (mean systolic: 112----104 mmHg;
diastolic: 71----65 mmHg, p less than 0.05), but not in Group 2 subjects. ACE
activity fell progressively in Group 1 subjects during fasting (14.4 +/- 1.6 U/ml
fed vs. 12.8 +/- 1.4 U/ml fasted p less than 0.05). ACE activity was not
decreased significantly early in the fast in patients given T3, but by late fast 
(days 6-8) was reduced to the same degree as in Group 1 subjects. Glucose and
insulin levels fell similarly in both groups.CONCLUSIONS: (1) ACE activity is
reduced during starvation. This effect is not mediated by T3. (2) Blood pressure 
reduction during fasting may result from the low T3 levels, but not from
decreased ACE activity. Interpretation of serum ACE activity must be viewed in
the context of a patient's diet.

PMID: 3030914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1987 Feb;64(2):304-8.

Acromegaly due to a growth hormone-releasing hormone-secreting bronchial
carcinoid tumor: further information on the abnormal responsiveness of the
somatotroph cells and their recovery after successful treatment.

Boizel R, Halimi S, Labat F, Cohen R, Bachelot I.

We studied GH secretion in a patient with acromegaly and a bronchial carcinoid
tumor before and again after surgical removal of this tumor. Before removal of
the carcinoid tumor, plasma GH increased slightly after glucose loading (OGTT)
and markedly after TRH (650%) and insulin (440%) treatment. Plasma GH did not
change after GH-releasing hormone (GHRH), LHRH, or L-dopa administration.
Somatostatin (SRIH) infusion lowered plasma GH. No change in plasma
immunoreactive GHRH (IR-GHRH) occurred after TRH, glucose, insulin, or SRIH
administration. Two weeks after removal of the carcinoid tumor, TRH induced GH
secretion (250%) when the IR-GHRH level was undetectable and somatomedin-C was
within normal limits. Fifteen weeks after surgery, the patient had normal GH
secretion.IN CONCLUSION: no pattern of GH secretion is diagnostic of acromegaly
due to ectopic GHRH secretion, but the lack of GH response to exogenous GHRH and 
a large response during hypoglycemia may be features of this condition. When
acromegaly and abnormal GH responsiveness are induced by a GHRH-secreting tumor, 
the increases in plasma GH after TRH, glucose, and insulin administration are not
mediated by GHRH. After removal of the GHRH-secreting tumor, persistent
paradoxical GH response to TRH does not require abnormally high IR-GHRH levels
and does not preclude complete recovery.

PMID: 3098773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1987 Feb;93(2):163-72.

Myocardial protection in the neonatal heart. A comparison of topical hypothermia 
and crystalloid and blood cardioplegic solutions.

Corno AF, Bethencourt DM, Laks H, Haas GS, Bhuta S, Davtyan HG, Flynn WM,
Drinkwater DC, Laidig C, Chang P.

Myocardial protection achieved during 2 hours of ischemic arrest was evaluated in
45 isolated, blood perfused, neonatal (1 to 5 days) piglet hearts. Comparisons
were made among five methods of myocardial protection: Group I, topical cooling; 
Group II, hyperosmolar (450 mOsm) low-calcium (0.5 mmol/L) crystalloid
cardioplegia; Group III, St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegia; Group IV, cold blood 
cardioplegia with potassium (21 mmol/L), citrate-phosphate-dextrose (calcium
level 0.6 mmol/L), and tromethamine; and Group V, cold blood cardioplegia with
potassium alone (16 mmol/L) (calcium level 1.2 mmol/L). Hemodynamic recovery
(percent of the preischemic stroke work) after 30 and 60 minutes of reperfusion
was 82.9% and 86.7% in Group I, 35.7% (p less than 0.0001) and 43.7% (p less than
0.0001) in Group II, 76.1% and 77.7% in Group III, 67.4% (p less than 0.05) and
60.6% (p less than 0.05) in Group IV, and 110.7% and 100.6% in Group
V.CONCLUSIONS: Topical cooling is an effective method of myocardial protection in
the neonate. Cold blood cardioplegia with potassium alone and a normal calcium
level provides optimal functional recovery. The improved protection obtained with
both crystalloid and blood cardioplegia with normal calcium levels suggests an
increased sensitivity of the neonatal heart to the calcium level of the
cardioplegic solution.

PMID: 3807393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Respir Care. 1987 Feb;32(2):81-4.

Evaluation of a flexible fiberoptic catheter in confirming endotracheal tube
placement in the intensive care unit.

Suarez M, Chediak A, Ershowsky P, Krieger B.

We evaluated the use of an inexpensive 2.2-mm fiberoptic catheter (FOC) to assess
endotracheal tube (ETT) placement in 22 critically ill adult patients.METHOD: The
distance between the carina and the distal tip of the ETT was measured under
direct visualization with the FOC and compared to the corresponding measurement
obtained from concomitant chest radiographs.
RESULTS: There was a significant linear correlation between measurements made by 
the two methods (r = 0.97, P less than 0.0001), and all FOC measurements were
within 1 cm of the corresponding radiograph measurements. No complications or
significant changes occurred in peak airway pressure, tidal volume, respiratory
rate, or heart rate. The procedure usually was performed in less than 1 minute.
Cost analysis revealed the possibility of major savings when the FOC is used
instead of portable chest radiography.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that documentation of endotracheal tube placement by
means of a fiberoptic catheter is rapid, accurate, safe, and cost-effective.

PMID: 10317847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1987 Feb;35(1):53-6.

Determination of central blood volume and extravascular lung water.

Böck J, Hoeft A, Korb H, de Vivie R, Hellige G.

In patients undergoing thoracic surgery central blood volume is subject to large 
variations and extravascular lung water may change critically due to fluid
shifts. Therefore, an accurate monitoring of these parameters, in particular
under perioperative conditions, seems to be desirable. This study describes an
improved method for the measurement of intrathoracic volumes. Experiments were
carried our in 9 mongrel dogs under piritramide-N2O anesthesia. In order to
produce low cardiac output in combination with uneven distribution of perfusion, 
measurements were performed under base line conditions and after postural
changes. Indicators (cold and indocyanine green dye) were injected into the v.
cava and indicator kinetics were recorded from the pulmonary artery and aorta
using thermistor-fiberoptic catheters. The transport functions of cold and dye
were computed from the corresponding pairs of dilution curves. From the transport
functions, the mean transit times of the intravascular (dye) and diffusible
(cold) indicator were determined. Central blood volume and extravascular lung
thermal volume were calculated from the mean transit times and a thermodilution
cardiac output.RESULTS: Under base line conditions, central blood volume was 15.3
+/- 2.5 ml/kg body weight. In orthostasis, a significant and reversible reduction
to 11.6 +/- 2.4 ml/kg body weight was found. Cardiac output fell significantly
from 3.3 +/- 0.5 to 2.4 +/- 1.1. l/min. In contrast, the slight decrease of
extravascular lung thermal volume was not statistically significant. It is
concluded that the method presented is sensitive enough to detect even small
changes of central blood volume.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2436345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1987 Feb;35(1):26-32.

Impedance spectroscopy: a method for surveillance of ischemia tolerance of the
heart.

Gebhard MM, Gersing E, Brockhoff CJ, Schnabel PA, Bretschneider HJ.

During myocardial ischemia the phase angle phi of the complex electric impedance 
of myocardial tissue at 5 kHz AC exhibits a characteristic behaviour, the
progress of which depends on the cardioplegic method applied. By extending the
frequency range to 200 Hz and 10 MHz and by analyzing in addition to phase and
magnitude also real and imaginary part of the impedance it was possible to
elucidate which ischemic changes in the myocardium are responsible for the course
of phi (5 kHz). This method we call impedance spectroscopy. Canine hearts were
cardioplegically perfused with either the standard solution HTK[4] or the
solution HTK[4] + 50 mumol/l Ca++. During the following ischemia at 25 degrees C 
energy-rich phosphate level, the ultrastructure, the real part, imaginary part
and phase angle of the impedance between 200 Hz and 10 MHz were analyzed.RESULTS:
phi (5 kHz) displays very similar characteristics during the ischemic period to
those of the real part of the impedance at 200 Hz, Re (200 Hz). Re (200 Hz)
increases, when--according to electron microscopic findings--an intracellular
myocardial edema begins to develop. The changes of Re(200 Hz) are always smaller,
however, than those of phi (5 kHz). This indicates that phi (5 kHz) increases in 
the course of ischemia not only as a consequence of confinement of the
extracellular space by myocardial cellular edema but also because of changes of
passive electrical characteristics of the myocardial cell membranes.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2436341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Z Kardiol. 1987 Feb;76(2):81-5.

[Incidence and kind of reperfusion arrhythmias in thrombolytic therapy of acute
myocardial infarct].

[Article in German]

Pop T, Erbel R, Treese N, von Olshausen K, Meyer J.

In 200 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction combined
medical-mechanical recanalization was attempted. Coronary angiography revealed an
occluded vessel in 150 patients. This vessel could be opened in 127 patients.
There were 112 men and 15 women, aged 32 to 72 years (mean age 61.2 years); 60
patients had an anterior and 67 patients presented with an inferior myocardial
infarction. 103 from 127 patients presented with arrhythmias during the ischemic 
phase and 112 from 127 patients during the reperfusion phase. The following
arrhythmias had a significantly higher incidence in the reperfusion phase
compared to the ischemic phase: sinus bradycardia (29 pts. - 22.8% - vs. 15 pts. 
- 11.8%; p less than 0.05), ventricular bigeminy (28 pts. - 29.9% - vs. 5 pts. - 
3.9%; p less than 0.01), ventricular couplets (34 pts. - 26.8% - vs. 20 pts. -
15.7%; p less than 0.05) and accelerated idioventricular rhythm (32 pts. - 25.2% 
- vs. 5 pts. - 3.9%; p less than 0.01). Ventricular fibrillation occurred during 
the ischemic phase in 9 patients and during the reperfusion phase in 7 patients
(n.s.). None of the patients presented with sustained ventricular tachycardia,
neither in the ischemic, nor in the reperfusion phase.CONCLUSIONS: The following 
rhythm disturbances can be called reperfusion arrhythmias: sinus bradycardia,
ventricular bigeminy, ventricular couplets and accelerated idioventricular
rhythm. The observed reperfusion arrhythmias were short-living and did not need
special therapeutic measures.

PMID: 2437714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 1987;17(1):1-6.

[Effect of acute irradiation on small bowel morphometry and D-xylose absorption
in rats].

[Article in Spanish]

Morán C(1), Mauriño E, González G, Martínez C, Yaquino E, Hojman R, Boerr L, Bai 
J.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Clínica Gastroenterológica, Hospital Nacional de Gastroenterología
Dr. Carlos Bonorino Udaondo, Buenos Aires, República Argentina.

In previous study in our laboratory, we had shown the effect of radiation on
morphometry of small bowel of rats after 7 days of a single external doses of
1,000 rads with liver protection. Our aim was to determine the effect of the same
procedure of gamma radiation in rats on the morphometry and D-Xylose absorption
7, 14 and 21 days after injury and compared with a control group matched by
weight. The D-Xylose absorption was measured by plasmatic D-Xylose, 60' after an 
intragastric doses of the pentose (0.5 grs/kg of body weight).RESULTS: In the
control group the mucosal thickness was 880 +/- 40 mu (X +/- SD), the vellous
height was 640 +/- 37.6 mu and the xylosemia 15.91 +/- 11.39 mg%. At 7 days in
the irradiated group (n: 11) the weight decreased 33.36 +/- 6.29% (Vs. control p 
less than .001), the mucosal thickness and the vellous height were 666 +/- 97 (p 
less than .001) and 466 +/- 66.9 mu (p less than .001) and the xylosemia 6.16 +/-
2.3 (p less than .05). The figures at 14 days (n: 16) showed improving and
completed recovery at 21 days (n: 14). Irradiated rats were shown to be affected 
in weight, morphology and D-Xylose absorption, they began recovering after 7
days, and completed recovery at 21 days.

PMID: 3442179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Acta Med Scand. 1987;221(2):165-70.

Sorbitol as a sweetener in the diet of insulin-dependent diabetes.

Vaaler S, Bjørneklett A, Jelling I, Skrede G, Hanssen KF, Fausa O, Aagenaes O.

We compared sorbitol given alone and as part of a mixed meal to nine
insulin-dependent diabetics (IDD's) during continuous subcutaneous insulin
infusion (CSII). Blood glucose, sorbitol and breath hydrogen + methane were
measured following six test meals: Pure glucose, sorbitol and lactulose, a mixed 
meal alone, and sweetened with sorbitol and sucrose. Blood glucose increase was
very small after lactulose and sorbitol, significantly larger after glucose. A
considerable increase in breath hydrogen + methane appeared after sorbitol and
lactulose, but not after glucose. No differences in blood glucose responses were 
found after the mixed meal alone or sweetened with sorbitol and sucrose. A
sustained low level increase in breath hydrogen + methane occurred after all
solid meals. Sorbitol was not detected in serum after any meal.CONCLUSION:
Sorbitol ingested by IDD's during CSII in watery solution is not absorbed in the 
small intestine and causes osmotic diarrhoea. Ingested in a composite meal it
does not affect blood glucose and does not cause osmotic diarrhoea.

PMID: 3296669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Acta Morphol Hung. 1987;35(3-4):189-98.

Atherosclerotic lesion of the aorta: its study applying a biometric system using 
multivariate statistical techniques.

Fernandez-Britto JE(1), Bacallao J, Carlevaro PV, Koch AS, Guski H.

Author information: 
(1)Higher Institute of Medical Science, Habana, Cuba.

To study the atherosclerotic lesion (a.l.) in the two aorta segments (thoracic
and abdominal) in a given set of autopsies (total 2043) performed during five
years (1981-85) in one of the principal general hospitals in the city of Havana, 
a set of five variables was used as part of a new biometric system (BS), to
characterize the a.l. in any vascular sector. Three of these variables represent 
the main types of a.l., fatty streaks (X), fibrous plaques (Y) and severe
(complicated and calcified) plaques (Z), while the others were indices of
stenosis (P) and benignity (B). Classical dissection and pathological laboratory 
procedures were performed. Qualitative and quantitative gross morphometric
analyses were done by a digitilizer joined to a NEC (9801) personal microcomputer
(Japan). These data were processed in a medium size computer EC-1040 (GDR). The
multivariate statistical techniques, the principal component analysis (PCA) and
the discriminant analysis (DA), were used applying the "SPSS"
programme.CONCLUSIONS: (1) PCA revealed in the two aorta segments studied a first
component of benignity, fatty streaks (X) and benignity index (B) and a second
component of severity, severe plaques (Z) and stenosis number (P). Because of the
dimensions of the two aorta segments (width and length) the dominant, first
component, is benignity. So the BS is useful in characterizing and describing the
lesional state of any aorta segments; (2) DA and BS proved to be useful to
distinguish between the high atherosclerotic group (HAG) and the low
atherosclerotic group (LAG). The correct classification rate exceed in all cases 
70%. The three components of the lesional state vector (X,Y,Z) distinguish the
groups. The stenosis (P) and benignity (B) indices proved to be most relevant.
The sign of benignity index is always the same as that of the LAG. Thus this
variable truly represents benignity. The coherence and consistency of the BS was 
also proved by DA.

PMID: 3137782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Alcohol Alcohol Suppl. 1987;1:601-6.

Alcohol dependence and problem drinking in urban middle aged men.

Kristenson H.

Author information: 
Department of Alcohol Diseases, Malmoe General Hospital, Sweden.

In the total population of 11.643 men born 1926-1933 and living in Malmoe all
individuals registered at the Department of Alcohol Diseases (RAD) from 1968-1984
were calculated and 10% of the records were analyzed. All men were invited to
screening investigations and 75% participated. Data on sick leave days were
available for as long as 21 years before screening and during follow up.
Screening GGT levels and affirmative answers to the Mm-Mast were analyzed.
Drinking problems were categorized in Alcohol Dependence Syndrome or Alcohol
Related Disabilities. The later category included: a) individuals RAD who were
non-alcohol dependent, b) 75% of men with screening GGT in the tenth decentile of
the GGT distribution, c) men with high sick leave caused by complications due to 
drinking.RESULTS: Alcohol dependence was found in 5.4%, problem drinking in
another 9.4% of the men in the general population. The yearly incidence of
alcohol dependence was 1.5 per thousand in these age year cohorts.

PMID: 3426739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Am Heart J. 1987 Jan;113(1):33-6.

Prevalence of late potentials in patients undergoing Holter monitoring.

Denes P, Santarelli P, Masson M, Uretz EF.

High-frequency, low-amplitude signals detected in the terminal portion of the
surface QRS, called late potentials (LP), have been shown to correlate with
inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia and to be absent in normal subjects. 
We studied LP in 152 patients without a history of sustained ventricular
tachycardia who underwent 24-hour Holter monitoring for varying clinical
indications (chest pain 21%, syncope 17%, palpitations 32%, dizziness 20%, other 
10%). Twenty-one patients (14%) had a positive test. Of the 152 patients, 84
(55%) had complex ventricular arrhythmias and 68 (45%) had simple or no
ventricular arrhythmias. Complex ventricular arrhythmias were present in 71% of
patients with and in 52% of those without LP.IN CONCLUSION: patients without
history of sustained ventricular tachycardia who demonstrate complex nonsustained
ventricular arrhythmias on Holter monitoring have a low prevalence of LP; the
presence of LP on signal-averaged ECG indicates an electrical property of the
heart, which is distinct from complex ventricular arrhythmias detected on Holter 
monitoring.

PMID: 3799439  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1379. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1987 Jan;135(1):173-5.

The bronchodilator effect of caffeine in adult asthmatics.

Bukowskyj M, Nakatsu K.

Caffeine has been reported to result in bronchodilation in asthmatic children.
Our study was designed to assess the effect of caffeine on pulmonary function in 
adults with asthma. We studied 8 patients: 4 men and 4 women with previously
documented airway reactivity. A randomized, double-blind cross-over was used. The
patients received either placebo or 5 mg/kg of caffeine in solution orally, and
FEV1, FVC, FEF25-75, Vmax25 and blood for caffeine concentrations were taken at
several time points for as long as 8 h after the drink.RESULTS: there was a
significant difference between caffeine and placebo for percent change in FEV1
with peak change at 1.5 h. There was also a significant difference for percent
change in FEF25-75 with peak occurring at 4 h. Percent change in Vmax25 was
significantly different at 3.0 h only. Peak caffeine concentration of 8.7 +/- 1.7
micrograms/ml occurred at 1 h. The data indicate that caffeine at a dose of 5
mg/kg can produce significant percentage improvement in FEV1, FEF25-75, and
Vmax25 in adult asthmatics.

PMID: 3541714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. C R Seances Soc Biol Fil. 1987;181(2):145-9.

[Changes in the ratio of T-lymphocyte subpopulations in various cytological
samples of Plummer's thyroid adenoma].

[Article in French]

Napolitano G, Lio S, Marinuzzi G, Monaco F, Roche J.

In order to correlate possible alterations of cell-mediated immune response with 
the evolutive phases of Plummer Adenoma (P. A.), T lymphocytes subpopulations in 
FNA samples and in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) have been studied in 5
patients with autonomous nodules. The lymphocyte component in FNA and peripheral 
blood has been isolated by Lymphoprep gradient centrifugation; the analysis of T 
helper and T suppressor subpopulations was made by indirect immunofluorescence
with OKT8 and OKT4 monoclonal antibodies. Our results show a reduction in
OKT4/OKT8 ratio in cytological samples compared with PBL in patients with P. A., 
while in control subjects there was not statistically significant difference. In 
the patients with P. A., the relative increase of OKT8 lymphocytes in FNA
compared with PBL is correlated with the functional state, that is toxic adenomas
have a lower OKT4/OKT8 ratio compared with nodules in pre-toxic phase.IN
CONCLUSION: T lymphocyte subpopulations typing in FNA demonstrate that, even in
this type of hyperthyroidism, immune response disorders are present and consist
of relative increase of suppressor/cytotoxic T cells, compared to T helper cells.

PMID: 2957033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Can J Anaesth. 1987 Jan;34(1):9-13.

Effect of bumetanide in capillary permeability pulmonary oedema.

Ali J, Duke K.

To determine if bumetanide, like furosemide, improves shunt through pulmonary
vasoactivity, 20 dogs with unilobar oleic acid pulmonary oedema were studied.
Fractional perfusion and intrapulmonary shunt of the oedematous lobe were
measured at: baseline, 1 1/2 hours after oleic acid infusion, 15 minutes later
after either 0.1 mg X kg-1 of bumetanide in ten dogs (Bumetanide Group) or
without bumetanide in ten dogs (Control Group), and 2 1/2 hours after the oleic
acid, the bumetanide being administered immediately after the 1 1/2 hours
post-oleic acid measurements. Lobar shunts for the Bumetanide Group were: 9.3 +/-
4.0, 54.3 +/- 13.6, 54.7 +/- 13.6, 38.6 +/- 12.0 per cent and forCONTROLS: 8.7
+/- 1.6, 45.1 +/- 8.8, 48.3 +/- 7.8, 70.4 +/- 6.2 per cent. Fractional perfusions
of the oedematous lobe were: 29.9 +/- 1, 14.7 +/- 1.1, 14.6 +/- 0.7, 19.3 +/- 1.9
per cent in the Bumetanide Group and 28.6 +/- 2.1, 14.2 +/- 1.1, 14.2 +/- 1.5,
and 9.9 +/- 1.1 per cent in CONTROLS. Oedema (wet to body weight ratio) was less 
(p less than 0.05) in the contralateral lobe (2.5 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.9 +/- 0.3) and
the oedematous lobe (4.7 +/- 0.4 vs 6.0 +/- 0.5) after bumetanide-induced
diuresis. We conclude that bumetanide decreases shunt by decreasing oedema and
not through pulmonary vasoactivity.

PMID: 3829293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Dig Dis Sci. 1987 Jan;32(1):76-85.

Assessment of the neural defect in a dog with idiopathic megaesophagus.

Tan BJ, Diamant NE.

In a dog with megaesophagus, we studied the upper (UES) and lower (LES)
esophageal sphincter responses to swallowing, the UES response to intraesophageal
balloon distension and acid perfusion, the fasting LES, stomach and upper small
bowel motor activity, and the LES response to intraesophageal balloon distension.
The findings were compared to those in two normal dogs. In normal dogs, balloon
distension (10-40 cc) and acid perfusion (0.1-0.4 N HCl) at 5, 10, and 15 cm
distal to the UES produced up to 200% and 100% increases in UES pressure,
respectively. Fasting LES activity in these dogs was coupled to the cyclical
migrating motor complex (MMC) activity of the stomach and intestine, with phase
I, random phase II, and phase III employing 40%, 40%, and 20% of cycle time,
respectively. Balloon distension (10-40 cc) at 5, 10, and 15 cm proximal to the
LES in phases I, II, and III produced 80-100% relaxation of the sphincter. In the
dog with megaesophagus: the UES and LES response to swallowing was normal;
balloon distension (10-40 cc) in the upper esophagus produced no significant
increase (P greater than 0.05) in UES pressure while acid perfusion (0.1-0.4 N
HCl) produced a significant but relatively smaller increase (50%) in UES
pressures; phase I MMC activity in this dog was absent or very short in duration 
(less than 5% cycle time), the activity mostly alternating between phases II and 
III (75-80% and 20% cycle time, respectively); and balloon distension in the
distal esophagus (up to 80 cc) induced no observable relaxation (less than 10%)
of the LES.CONCLUSION: The normal UES and LES response to swallowing and the
presence of cyclical MMC activity in the LES indicates that the efferent neural
pathways, at least to these areas, are intact in the dog with megaesophagus.
Absence or decreased response of the UES and LES to intraluminal stimuli suggests
that at least the afferent component of the reflex neural pathways is faulty in
idiopathic megaesophagus. The location of the defect is yet to be determined.

PMID: 3792182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Dtsch Z Verdau Stoffwechselkr. 1987;47(6):311-25.

[Insulin therapy of obese diabetic patients? Consequences for the evaluation of
insulin secretion and metabolic behavior].

[Article in German]

Verlohren HJ, Danneberg G, Brunner E, Pohl A, Bierwolf B.

In 83 diabetics insulin secretion was examined after a mean diabetes duration of 
7.5 years, when an insufficient metabolic situation could be found. Insulin
secretion was stimulated with 100 g glucose (orally) and 1.0 mg glucagon i.v. (60
min after glucose intake). We investigated additionally in a retrospective manner
blood-glucose and urine glucose behaviour as well as the development of the body 
weight. In dependence of the actual body weight at the time of investigation of
insulin secretion, two groups were formed: b. w. less than 120% acc. Broca index,
group A, n = 38; b. w. greater than 120% acc. Broca index. group B, n = 45).
Immediately after manifestation of the disease 71 diabetes were treated with pure
dietetic measures. At the examination of insulin secretion all patients were
treated with glibenclamide. After this examination in 20 patients of the group A 
and in 17 patients of the group B an insulinisation was started. In the others
glibenclamide treatment was continued. The general characteristics of the whole
group was a significant reduction of the maximum stimulability of insulin
secretion, compared with the insulin secretion of n = 19 healthy probands (11
probands with normal body weight and 8 obese probands). A hyperinsulinism
(maximum values higher than mean + 1 s of the health persons) could not be found 
in any case. The mean of the maximum insulin values was below mean - 1 s of the
healthy persons. Insulinisation provoked an improvement of the metabolic
situation. This was correlated with an additional improvement of the subjective
behaviour.CONCLUSION: Evaluation of insulin secretion in obese diabetics with bad
metabolic situation is necessary to find out those who are to be treated with
insulin. We have no clinical or other possibilities to recognize patients with a 
hyperinsulinism or reduced insulin secretion than by evaluation of insulin
secretion alone. But higher degrees of decompensated metabolism are nearly always
explained by a significant reduction of insulin secretion.

PMID: 3129276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1987;56(4):467-73.

Adaptation of human left ventricular volumes to the onset of supine exercise.

Magder SA, Daughters GT, Hung J, Alderman EL, Ingels NB Jr.

The purpose of this study was to measure the changes and rates of adaptation of
left ventricular volumes at the onset of exercise. Eight asymptomatic subjects,
in whom intramyocardial markers had been implanted 3-6 years previously during
aortocoronary bypass surgery, exercised in the supine position at a constant
workload of 73.6 W for 5 min. Six also exercised first at 16.4 W, and then
against a workload which progressively increased by 8.2 W every 15 s. Cardiac
volumes were measured by computer assisted analysis of the motion of the
implanted markers. In the constant workload test, cardiac output increased
rapidly from 5.7 +/- 1 min-1 to 10.3 +/- 1.9 1 min-1 by 2 min and then increased 
more slowly to 10.8 +/- 2.0 1 min-1 by 5 min. The cardiac output increase was
mainly due to an increase in heart rate from 68 +/- 12 beats min-1 to 120 +/- 16 
beats min-1 with minimal changes in stroke volume. The time constant for the
early increase in cardiac output was 45s and for heart rate, 35s. With
progressively increasing workloads, there was an almost linear increase of heart 
rate and cardiac output, but these increased at a slower rate than during the
early phase of the constant load exercise test.IN CONCLUSION: rapid changes in
cardiac output during supine exercise were produced by changes in heart rate;
changes in stroke volume provided minor adjustments to cardiac output; the
end-diastolic volume was almost constant.

PMID: 3622490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Horm Res. 1987;25(4):199-205.

Metabolism of GnRH in man: influence of estrogens.

Cissewski K, Tharandt L, Benker G, Reinwein D.

To clarify the influence of estrogens on the metabolism of gonadotropin-releasing
hormone (GnRH), we studied the metabolic clearance rate (MCR) of GnRH (MCRGnRH), 
and the serum levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone
(FSH), estradiol and testosterone (total and free fraction) in 9 sexually mature 
men and 7 women under basal conditions and after treatment with the antiestrogen 
tamoxifen (2 X 10 mg/day p.o.) for 7 days. In women, the medication was started
on day 7 +/- 1 of their menstrual cycles. To calculate the MCR, synthetic GnRH
was continuously infused (1.53 micrograms/min) and its serum levels were measured
by a radioimmunoassay. During tamoxifen treatment we observed a small but
significant decrease in the MCR in men (455 +/- 48 to 357 +/- 46 ml/min/1.86 m2),
whereas the known cyclic increase in the MCR in women was blunted (1,769 +/- 147 
to 1,558 +/- 119 ml/min/1.86 m2). There was a small but significant increase in
LH levels in women (8.3 +/- 2.1 to 11.5 +/- 2.5 mU/ml). LH and testosterone
levels in men, and FSH and estradiol levels in both sexes did not change
significantly.CONCLUSION: (1) estrogens regulate the MCRGnRH either directly or
by changing gonadotropin levels, but the effect is only slight; (2) an enhanced
metabolism of GnRH may contribute to the feedback of estrogens on the secretion
of gonadotropins, and (3) the sex-specific difference of the MCR is presumably
not caused by estrogens.

PMID: 3108133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Int J Cardiol. 1987 Jan;14(1):33-45.

Prediction of the extent of coronary artery disease with the evaluation of left
ventricular wall motion abnormalities during atrial pacing. A cross-sectional
echocardiographic study.

Iliceto S, Papa A, D'Ambrosio G, Amico A, Sorino M, Coluccia P, Rizzon P.

In patients with coronary artery disease, left ventricular performance during
stress is affected by the degree of coronary stenosis. In order to verify whether
there exists a relationship between the extent of wall motion abnormalities
detectable during atrial pacing and the degree of coronary obstruction, 76
patients, without previous myocardial infarction, were studied. Each patient
underwent cross-sectional echocardiography during transesophageal atrial pacing
and exercise electrocardiography before coronary angiography. Of the 76 patients,
46 had significant coronary artery disease (stenosis greater than or equal to 75%
of at least one major coronary vessel), while 30 had normal coronaries or a
stenosis of less than 75%. Eighteen patients had single-, 14 had two- and 14 had 
three-vessel disease. For each patient a coronary score was obtained: the score
used took into consideration the site, number and severity of the stenosis. This 
score was then correlated with the wall motion score, obtained from the analysis 
of 9 segments of the left ventricle. A weak correlation was obtained between wall
motion score at rest and coronary score (r = -0.42), while the correlation
between coronary score and the difference between wall motion score at rest and
during transesophageal atrial pacing was slightly better (r = 0.53); this
correlation further improved if wall motion score during pacing was considered (r
= -0.63). If the patients with discordant diagnostic tests (echocardiography
during transesophageal atrial pacing and exercise electrocardiography) were
excluded, the correlation coefficient between coronary score and wall motion
score during pacing increased even more (r = -0.77).IN CONCLUSION: (1) analysis
of wall motion of the left ventricle during atrial pacing is useful for the
non-invasive evaluation of the severity of coronary disease; (2) cross-sectional 
echocardiography during atrial pacing, apart from being a useful diagnostic tool,
is also a help in judging the degree of severity of coronary artery disease.

PMID: 3804503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. J Hirnforsch. 1987;28(2):221-32.

Comparative studies on the astrocytic reaction in the lesioned central nervous
system of different vertebrates.

Kästner R.

The morphology of the optic nerve of fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and
mammals, with special reference to the membrane architecture of the astrocytes,
is described by means of ultrathin sections and freeze-fracture replicas. The
reaction patterns of the astrocytes in response lesions of the optic nerve are
discussed with respect to the regenerative capacity of the central nervous system
(CNS). Astrocytic membranes in the optic nerve of the goldfish and Rana esculenta
do not reveal orthogonal arrays of particles (OAP), in contrast to those of the
optic nerve of the turtle, lizard, chicken, pigeon and rat. Reactive astrocytes
in the crushed optic nerve of goldfish establish tunnel-like structures that are 
in close contact with the regenerating axons. During the regeneration period the 
distribution of intramembranous particles (IMP) in the astrocytic membrane is not
uniform, in contrast to the situation found after complete regeneration and in
the untreated optic nerve. Reactive astrocytes in degenerating optic nerves of
chicken and rat form a glial scar. The density of the OAP decreases in reactive
astrocytes of adult chicken and rats, whereas the density increases during the
degeneration period in the optic nerve of the postnatal rat.HYPOTHESIS:
Astrocytes devoid of OAP are only found in regions of the vertebrate CNS capable 
of regeneration. In contrast, the inability to regenerate coincides with the
appearance of OAP. Therefore, it is suspected that the presence of OAP in
astrocytic membranes is at least one of several factors involved in the abortive 
regeneration of nerve fibers.

PMID: 3624861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. J Mal Vasc. 1987;12 Suppl B:147-51.

[Use of a low molecular weight heparin, CY 222, in the treatment of consumption
coagulopathy].

[Article in French]

Audibert G(1), Lambert H, Toulemonde F, Alexandre P, Laprevote-Heully MC,
Bollaert PE, Bauer P, Larcan A.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Réanimation Médicale, Hôpital Central, Nancy.

Among the different treatments used for consumption coagulopathies, the most
contested is classical heparin because of the risk of worsening of a hemorrhagic 
syndrome. A low molecular weight heparin was evaluated to determine possible
improvement of this risk.METHODS: Treatment with CY 222 (Choay) was administered 
over 2 years to 29 patients (mean age 40 years, range 15-74) with coagulation
coagulopathies. Diagnosis was based on the presence of 3 of the following 5
signs: platelets less than 150,000/mm, fibrinogen less than 2 g/l, QT less than
50%, ethanol test positive, PDF greater than 20 micrograms/ml. Etiology could be 
classed in 3 groups: gravido-puerperal (12 cases), medical disorders (15 cases), 
post-traumatic (2 cases). Dosage was 150 U/kg every 18 hours subcutaneously. The 
usual symptomatic treatment included: transfusion of red cells, frozen fresh
plasma, platelets and antithrombin III as necessary. A hemorrhage syndrome was
present in 16 cases. The course of the disease was evaluated on clinical findings
and surveillance of hemostasis parameters; anti-Xa activity was determined in 15 
patients.
RESULTS: Hemorrhage was arrested and biological values normalized in 22 patients 
(76%) including 15 (52%) survivors. In the 7 cases where the coagulopathy was not
improved, the hemorrhagic syndrome persisted in 4. In the 22 successful outcomes,
the hemostasis was corrected within 48 to 72 hours, with the exception of the
thrombopenia, which persisted up to the 6th day. Mean anti-Xa activity was 0.32
+/- 0.16 anti-Xa U/ml.
CONCLUSION: Results of this preliminary, non-randomized study show CY 222 to be
as effective as heparin in the treatment of consumption coagulopathies.

PMID: 2834489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. J Membr Biol. 1987;95(2):121-30.

Voltage dependence of the Ca2+-activated K+ conductance of human red cell
membranes is strongly dependent on the extracellular K+ concentration.

Vestergaard-Bogind B, Stampe P, Christophersen P.

The conductance of the Ca2+-activated K+ channel (gK(Ca)) of the human red cell
membrane was studied as a function of membrane potential (Vm) and extracellular
K+ concentration ([K+]ex). ATP-depleted cells, with fixed values of cellular K+
(145 mM) and pH (approximately 7.1), and preloaded with approximately 27 microM
ionized Ca were transferred, with open K+ channels, to buffer-free salt solutions
with given K+ concentrations. Outward-current conductances were calculated from
initial net effluxes of K+, corresponding Vm, monitored by CCCP-mediated
electrochemical equilibration of protons between a buffer-free extracellular and 
the heavily buffered cellular phases, and Nernst equilibrium potentials of K ions
(EK) determined at the peak of hyperpolarization. Zero-current conductances were 
calculated from unidirectional effluxes of 42K at (Vm-EK) approximately equal to 
0, using a single-file flux ratio exponent of 2.7. Within a [K+]ex range of 5.5
to 60 mM and at (Vm-EK) greater than or equal to 20 mV a basic conductance, which
was independent of [K+]ex, was found. It had a small voltage dependence, varying 
linearly from 45 to 70 microS/cm2 between 0 and -100 mV. As (Vm-EK) decreased
from 20 towards zero mV gK(Ca) increased hyperbolically from the basic value
towards a zero-current value of 165 microS/cm2. The zero-current conductance was 
not significantly dependent on [K+]ex (30 to 156 mM) corresponding to Vm (-50 mV 
to 0). A further increase in gK(Ca) symmetrically around EK is suggested as
(Vm-EK) becomes positive. Increasing the extracellular K+ concentration from zero
and up to approximately 3 mM resulted in an increase in gK(Ca) from approximately
50 to approximately 70 microS/cm2. Since the driving force (Vm-EK) was larger
than 20 mV within this range of [K+]ex this was probably a specific K+ activation
of gK(Ca).IN CONCLUSION: The Ca2+-activated K+ channel of the human red cell
membrane is an inward rectifier showing the characteristic voltage dependence of 
this type of channel.

PMID: 3573031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. J Neural Transm. 1987;69(1-2):59-70.

A carrier for GABA uptake exists on noradrenaline nerve endings in selective rat 
brain areas but not on serotonin terminals.

Bonanno G, Raiteri M.

gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) increased in a concentration-dependent way (3-300 
microM) the basal release of tritium from rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus
synaptosomes, prelabelled with 3H-noradrenaline (3H-NA); however, GABA was
ineffective on hypothalamic nerve endings. The effect displayed by low
concentrations (less than 10 microM) of GABA was largely bicuculline-sensitive.
Muscimol mimicked GABA, while (-)baclofen was inactive. The releasing effects
produced by concentrations of GABA higher than 10 microM were largely prevented
by SK&F89976A, SK&F100330A and SK&F100561, three novel GABA uptake inhibitors.
When present together, GABA uptake blocker and bicuculline counteracted entirely 
the GABA effects. The basal release of 3H-5-hydroxytryptamine (3H-5-HT) in
synaptosomes from various CNS regions was not affected by GABA.IN CONCLUSION:
GABA can enhance 3H-NA release not only through GABA-A receptors but also by
penetrating into NA terminals through a GABA uptake system. This implies
coexistence of carriers for NA and GABA uptake on a same nerve terminal. The
carrier coexistence occurs in selective CNS areas. The phenomenon appears to be
transmitter-selective.

PMID: 3585321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 1987;9(1):40-6.

A statistical analysis to characterize treatment adherence of the 18 most common 
diagnoses seen at a sports medicine clinic.

Derscheid GL, Feiring DC.

The purpose of this study is to provide a statistical analysis of the length of
treatment patients experience with one or more of the most common athletic
diagnoses seen at a sports medicine clinic. Based on a computerized analysis of
1707 patients the following statistical trends were documented. A hierarchy of
the 18 most common diagnoses was established, indicating the importance of injury
to the anterior cruciate ligament in the sports medicine clinic setting. Surgical
groups required longer treatment times than those patients with nonsurgical
diagnoses. Patients who required longer treatment programs could be statistically
separated from shorter treatment programs based on their condition (fully active 
versus improved versus status quo) when released from therapy. Multiple injuries 
had no effect of increased treatment time when compared to isolated injuries for 
long-term or short-term diagnoses.EDITORS NOTE: An addendum update from 1984's
statistics to 1986 appears in the article as Table 5.J Ortho Sports Phys Ther
1987;9(1):40-46.

PMID: 18794587  [PubMed]


1392. J Psychiatr Res. 1987;21(3):313-7.

The dexamethasone suppression test and antidepressant response in major
depression.

Simon JS(1), Evans DL, Nemeroff CB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin Medical School, Milwaukee 53201.

We conducted a prospective open pilot study of 34 consecutively admitted patients
with the DSM-III diagnosis of MD who were admitted to a general psychiatric unit.
Patients underwent a 1 mg DST and were randomly assigned to treatment with either
maprotiline or trazodone. Antidepressant dosages were increased as tolerated
clinically and according to treatment response.RESULTS: mean final oral doses
were 193 mg for maprotiline and 328 mg for trazodone. The mean treatment duration
was 4.5 weeks for maprotiline and 5.9 weeks for the trazodone group. Of these 34 
patients 44% showed DST nonsuppression (41% maprotiline, 45% trazodone).
Seventy-six per cent of the patients responded to treatment (76% for both drugs) 
as defined by GAS. Eighty-seven per cent of the nonsuppressors responded to
treatment (86% maprotiline, 88% trazodone) and 68% of the suppressors responded
(70% maprotiline, 67% trazodone). Of the eight treatment nonresponders six showed
DST suppression. The implications of these findings are discussed.

PMID: 3681765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1987;372:547-51.

[Hiatal hernia and reflux disease--long-term results following fundoplication and
consequences in therapeutic failures].

[Article in German]

Ackermann C(1), Margreth L, Muller C, Harder F.

Author information: 
(1)Departement Chirurgie der Universität, Kantonsspital, Basel.

10 to 20 years (median 15.1 years) after fundoplication for primary reflux
disease 257 patients were questioned about their symptoms. Data of 163 patients
could be analyzed.RESULTS: 21.4% of the patients have persistent or recurrent
reflux symptoms, about half of them (9.8%) need medical treatment. Adverse
side-effects of the fundoplication are frequent: dysphagia in 28.2%, gas-bloat in
50.3%. Using the Visick criteria for classification we found Visick grade I and
II for 75.5%, grade III for 17.2%, and IV for 7.4%. Diagnostic and therapeutic
concepts in case of failed reflux control are discussed.

PMID: 3431264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Nephron. 1987;47(2):144-9.

Relationship between left ventricular systolic function and plasma clearance of
169Yb-DTPA in normal and ischemic dogs.

Kaul S(1), Watson DD, Oliner JD, Okada RD, Weyman AE, Strauss HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville.

Plasma clearance of 169Yb-DTPA, a heavy chelate metal excreted only by glomerular
filtration, was measured serially in a canine model to determine whether the
clearance of this substance correlates with left ventricular systolic function.
Fourteen anesthetized open-chest dogs were studied. Six dogs (group I) were used 
to estimate the clearance of 169Yb-DTPA in the setting of normal left ventricular
function. Eight dogs (group II) were used to estimate clearance of 169Yb-DTPA in 
the presence of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. Cardiac output, mean
arterial pressure, and plasma levels of 169Yb-DTPA were measured serially. In
group II dogs, area at risk for necrosis was defined using myocardial contrast
echocardiography. The change in clearance of 169Yb-DTPA in group II dogs
correlated well with change in cardiac output and area at risk (r = 0.80 and
-0.93, respectively) and was significantly different from group I dogs (p less
than 0.01). However, changes in clearance of 169Yb-DTPA in the group II dogs did 
not correlate well with change in mean arterial pressure (r = 0.26).IN
CONCLUSION: (1) clearance of 169Yb-DTPA is constant over time in the absence of
ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and derangement of other hemodynamic
parameters; (2) changes in clearance of 169Yb-DTPA correlate well with changes in
systolic pump function and left ventricular area at risk in the setting of
ischemic left ventricular dysfunction, and (3) clearance of 169Yb-DTPA is not
related to mean arterial pressure.

PMID: 3696319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Neuropsychobiology. 1987;18(4):175-84.

Circadian rhythm of free urinary cortisol, temperature and heart rate in
endogenous depressives and under antidepressant therapy.

Goetze U(1), Tölle R.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie der Universität Münster, BRD.

Free cortisol in urine, temperature and heart rate were examined in 81 endogenous
depressives and 15 healthy controls in five successive 24-hour rhythms. The
nocturnal mean value, amplitude, phase position of the minima and period length
were calculated.MAIN RESULTS: cortisol secretion is to be found in larger
quantities in depressives than in healthy controls. The amount of cortisol is
again raised after a period of sleep deprivation and simultaneously the amplitude
becomes larger. Temperature measurements revealed an enlargement of the amplitude
following treatment with tricyclic antidepressants. A minimal increase in heart
rate is evident in endogenous depressives in comparison with healthy subjects.
The heart rate in the entire circadian course is significantly increased by
antidepressants. All three variables showed a phase advance of the nocturnal
minima in endogenous depression. Alterations in period length could not be
detected. The findings were discussed in regard to chronobiological dissertations
on endogenous depression.

PMID: 3454423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Jan;88(1):109-18.

[The effect of pharmacological pretreatment on the long-term globally ischemic
heart; lysosome, cyclic nucleotide and myocardial injury].

[Article in Japanese]

Yokoyama M.

The effect of pretreatment on the 3 hrs globally ischemic heart assessed from the
myocardial enzymes, lysosomal enzymes and cyclic nucleotides in coronary sinus
blood was studied in mongrel dogs. Combined administration of CoQ10, Aprotinin,
Betamethasone and Nifedipine was done as pretreatment.RESULTS: m-AST, NAG and
beta-Glucuronidase were significantly lower in the pretreatment group.
Significant positive correlations were obtained in order between
beta-Glucuronidase and NAG (r = 0.6869), m-AST and beta-Glucuronidase (r =
0.6590), m-AST and NAG (r = 0.5381), m-AST and CK-MB (r = 0.49), respectively.
Significant increase in cAMP/cGMP ratio was observed in the control group after
reperfusion. Before aortic occlusion, significant negative correlations were
obtained between cAMP and beta-Glucuronidase, NAG, m-AST, and after 5 min of
reperfusion, significant negative correlations were obtained between cGMP and
NAG, m-AST and significant positive correlations between cAMP/cGMP ratio and NAG,
m-AST. These data suggested the effectiveness of pretreatment, the relation
between lysosomal enzyme release and the ischemic myocardial injury, and the
usefulness of m-AST to evaluate the degree of myocardial injury. Moreover, the
increase of cAMP/cGMP ratio suggested the ischemic myocardial injury, and cGMP in
the ischemic condition, and cAMP in the non-ischemic condition affected lysosomal
enzyme release.

PMID: 2434829  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1987 Jan;61(1):17-30.

[A clinical study on the shape of the spinal cord in cervical spondylotic
myelopathy based on CT-myelography].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi A.

A clinical study of computed tomographic myelography with metrizamide was
performed in 35 patients operated for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Sagittal
diameter of the cord was measured at vertebral and intervertebral levels. The
deformity of the cord was classified into four categories. The correlation
between these factors and clinical symptoms and surgical results were
examined.RESULTS: The sagittal diameter of the cord at the most severely affected
level was less than 5 mm. There was a good correlation between the degree of cord
deformity and the severity of symptoms. The spinal cord with canal stenosis
demonstrated severe deformity at multiple levels. Enlargement of the cord was
seen with recovery of symptoms after surgery. The shape of the cord provides
information on severity and viability of cord damage and, therefore, appears to
be useful not only for diagnosis of the lesion but also for selection of the
operative treatment.

PMID: 3572137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. No Shinkei Geka. 1987 Jan;15(1):49-54.

[Gliosarcoma--a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Ide M, Jimbo M, Yamamoto M, Tanaka N, Kubo O.

A 60-year-old woman was admitted to our clinic on September 29, 1983 because of a
five months history of personality change and progressive left sided motor
weakness. Neurological examination on admission revealed left hemiparesis and
papilledema. She was severely demented. Skull X-rays were normal. CT scan showed 
a large right parietoccipital mass which was markedly enhanced by contrast
medium. Right internal carotid angiogram showed abnormal vascular shadow, early
draining veins and tumor stain in parietoccipital region. Right external carotid 
angiogram showed that the tumor was partly fed by the middle meningeal artery in 
"sunburst" pattern. The tumor was resected subtotally through right
parietoccipital craniotomy on October 4, 1983. At operation, well demarcated,
reddish-grey tumor attached to the dura was found. Several branches of the middle
meningeal artery were penetrated into the tumor through the attachment. The tumor
grossly appeared to be a meningioma in its superficial part, but demarcation was 
found being obscured in removing the deeper part of the tumor.PATHOLOGICAL
FINDINGS: The specimens obtained from the superficial part of the tumor showed
admixture of two distinctive neoplastic tissues. One was malignant mesenchymal
features. Fibrosarcomatous nature was obvious, characterized by cells with
moderately chromatic, fusiform nuclei arranged in parallel rows and eosinophilic 
fibers deeply stained in silver preparation for reticulin. The other was
gliomatous tissue forming islands surrounded by the sarcomatous tissues. Both
tissues were histologically malignant, as evidenced by mitotic figure, high
cellularity, atypical features and variability. In deeper part, sarcomatous
findings was less noticed and features of glioblastoma multiforme more prominent,
characterized by marked astrocytic anaplasia, endothelial proliferation and
extensive perinecrotic pseudopalisading.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3822066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Prog Pediatr Surg. 1987;21:8-19.

Subglottic stenosis in newborns after mechanical ventilation.

Marcovich M, Pollauf F, Burian K.

Mechanical ventilation in the neonatal period is sometimes followed by difficulty
in removal of the endotracheal tube although the patient does not need further
respiratory support. This problem results from subglottic stenosis consequent on 
prolonged use of endotracheal tubes. We found this complication in 5 patients
among 854 newborns who required artificial respiration. A further patient was
admitted from another hospital because of extubation problems. Our clinical
diagnosis was confirmed by endoscopy. Drug therapy with steroids and
anti-inflammatory agents was tried in all six patients and was successful in two.
In four patients conservative management failed and laser surgery was performed; 
three of these infants required tracheostomy. In two decannulation has already
been performed at the age of 2 1/2 years.IN CONCLUSION: five of six patients were
treated successfully, and one 3-year-old patient is still being treated. In the
light of reports from other authors, this approach can be recommended for the
management of acquired subglottic stenosis.

PMID: 3107078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Psychopathology. 1987;20(5-6):237-49.

On the daily rhythm of depression symptomatology.

Tölle R(1), Goetze U.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Psychiatry, University of Münster, FRG.

Diurnal variation of the symptomatology of endogenous depression (melancholy) was
examined by means of 4 scales on 5 consecutive days in 24 untreated patients and 
in 63 patients under antidepressant drugs and after sleep deprivation.RESULTS:
the group means exhibit a sinus-type daily curve with morning low (but not
significant). This so-called typical diurnal variation is more often found than
other definable diurnal variations. The frequency cannot, however, be specified
with one figure, because the quota varies, according to the criteria used,
between 36.1 and 4.2%. The so-called typical diurnal variation is thus irregular,
and intraindividually it also proved to be unstable. It is not specific for
endogenous depressions. There is evidence of frequent shorter (ultradian)
variations of depression symptomatology that are, however, difficult to record.
Pharmacological therapy has little influence on the depressive diurnal variation.
Sleep deprivation can revert the inverse diurnal variation and provoke a typical 
diurnal variation. After methodological deliberations the diagnostic and
therapeutic implications are discussed.

PMID: 3454447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Res Exp Med (Berl). 1987;187(6):451-9.

Role of fluid replacement, increased oxygen availability by perfluorochemicals
and enhanced RES function in the treatment of mesenteric occlusion shock.

Hamar J(1), Dezsi L, Adam E, Egri L, Netzer KO, Stark M, Lutz J.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Research Dept., Semmelweis University Medical School, Budapest VIII,
Hungary.

Experiments were carried out on 183 rats to study the effect of a complex therapy
for treatment of mesenteric shock. The superior mesenteric artery (SMA) was
temporarily ligated for 90 min under ether anesthesia; this was followed by an
analgesic treatment. After release of the ligated artery, fluid therapy was
instituted by administering the equivalent of 7.5% of body weight of one of three
different solutions: ringer lactate (RL), hydroxyethyl starch (HES) in RL, and
perfluorochemicals (PFC, 4 g/kg b.wt. in RL with HES), the latter with the aim to
improve the oxygen transport to the tissue. The same fluid therapy was carried
out on rats pretreated with E. coli endotoxin. Endotoxin pretreatment was chosen 
to compensate the negative effect of PFC on the reticuloendothelial system (RES) 
as shown in previous studies. Survival time and survival rate were recorded as
well as hematocrit values at different times before and after treatment.
Experimental groups were:CONTROLS: (1) SMA occlusion without release; (2) 90-min 
occlusion without therapy. Treated animals: (3) RL therapy; (4) therapy with HES 
in RL; (5) therapy with PFC in RL and HES; (6), (7), and (8) identical therapies 
as Groups 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but with endotoxin pretreatment. Survival
time increased to the same extent if HES or PFC were added to RL. There was a
further increase both in survival times and rates with endotoxin pretreatment
(Groups 6, 7, and 8 vs. Groups 3, 4, and 5). The highest survival time and rate
were obtained in Group 8, which received PFC therapy with endotoxin pretreatment.
There was a slight negative correlation between survival time and hematocrit
values if all groups were considered together.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3327121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1987 Jan-Feb;12(1):12-22.

Posterior cervical fusions using cerclage wires, methylmethacrylate cement and
autogenous bone graft. An experimental study of a canine model.

Whitehill R, Stowers SF, Fechner RE, Ruch WW, Drucker S, Gibson LR, McKernan DJ, 
Widmeyer JH.

Forty-eight adult mongrel dogs underwent posterior exposure of C4-C5, fixation of
the two posterior spinous processes together with a no. 20-gauge cerclage wire,
posterior element decortication, wound irrigation and the following: bone fusions
(application of a standard volume of iliac crest autograft),
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) fusions (application of a standard volume of
methylmethacrylate cement), Combination 1 fusions (application of one-half the
volume of graft used in the bone fusions, over the facet joints.
Methylmethacrylate cement was pressed into position centrally to surround the
posterior spinous processes and cerclage wire), Combination 2 fusions
(application of the same volume of graft used in the bone fusions, over the facet
joints. Methylmethacrylate cement was applied as in the Combination 1 fusions).
For each preparation, six animals survived 2 weeks or 3 months. All had monthly
lateral cervical radiographs. At the appropriate times, they were killed and
their C4-C5 segments excised and studied mechanically and histologically. At 2
weeks all of the above preparations were mechanically inferior to normal C4-C5
segments in respect to at least one of the parameters studied. At 3 months, the
bone fusions and both combination fusions had developed sufficient mechanical
stability so that they were equivalent to normal segments. At this time, the PMMA
fusions remained inferior to the "normals." The mechanical data for the PMMA and 
both combination fusions was corroborated by the histology which demonstrated a
fibrosynovial layer between the cement masses and underlying posterior element
bone. In the 3-month combination fusions, the lateral aspects of the posterior
elements had been spanned by a fusion mass.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Previously, the
authors defined some of the problems associated with constructs modeled by their 
PMMA fusions. This work confirms the previous research. It also demonstrates that
ultimate spinal stability is produced by combination constructs. Because of the
2-week mechanical data, it is recommended that when combination constructs are
used clinically, the patient's neck be protected by an external orthosis in the
early postoperative period.

PMID: 3554556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. Z Kardiol. 1987 Jan;76(1):8-14.

[Evaluation of aortic valve insufficiency using color Doppler echocardiography].

[Article in German]

Becher H, Grube E, Lüderitz B.

Colour flow mapping Doppler echocardiography is a new, noninvasive method for
studying the direction and velocity of blood flow within the cardiac chambers. In
order to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of this method in the
evaluation of aortic regurgitation, 44 patients were examined consecutively. In
24 patients, aortic valve incompetence was proven by angiography; in 20 patients 
aortography revealed no regurgitation. Quantification of the severity of aortic
insufficiency was performed by grading the amount of colour of the regurgitant
flow (grade I-IV) and comparing it with the angiographic data. In 43 out of 44
patients diagnostic images could be obtained with colour flow mapping Doppler
echocardiography. With this method aortic insufficiency was detected in all cases
(sensitivity 100%). The specificity was 97% (one false positive diagnosis). For
quantification of the severity of regurgitation agreement with the angiographic
findings was obtained in 18 out of 24 cases. In the remaining 6 patients the
difference was one grade.CONCLUSION: Colour flow mapping Doppler echocardiography
is an important advance in the noninvasive preoperative diagnostics of aortic
incompetence.

PMID: 3564620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. Am J Physiol. 1986 Dec;251(6 Pt 2):F988-94.

Escherichia coli endotoxin injections potentiate experimental ischemic renal
injury.

Zager RA.

The purpose of this study was to assess the influence of Escherichia coli
endotoxin on the evolution of ischemic acute renal failure (ARF). Rats were
subjected to 25 min of bilateral renal artery occlusion (RAO) plus
subcutaneous/intraperitoneal injections of either boiled E. coli or purified E.
coli endotoxin (1.5 mg). Boiling the E. coli renders them nonviable but leaves
endotoxin intact. Ischemic controls were injected with saline. The E. coli
injections exacerbated ischemic ARF, doubling the degree of azotemia and
increasing the extent of tubular necrosis and cast formation. This occurred
without an adverse effect on renal blood flow or blood pressure during the
initiation phase or maintenance phase of the ARF. Endotoxin tolerant rats were
totally protected against the E. coli-ARF potentiating effect. Neither
Staphylococcus aureus nor E. coli with denatured endotoxin adversely affected
ischemic injury. Purified E. coli endotoxin reproduced the E. coli-ARF
potentiating action. Neither E. coli nor purified endotoxin induced azotemia in
the absence of renal ischemia.CONCLUSION: E. coli endotoxin can exacerbate
ischemic renal injury without compromising renal hemodynamics. This action
appears to be mediated by an adverse effect of endotoxin on critical subcellular 
determinants of ischemic tissue injury.

PMID: 3538906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1986 Dec;5(4):351-9.

Age-dependent phagocytosis of erythrocytes by the isolated perfused rat liver
after galactosamine hepatitis and alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate cholestasis.

Vömel T, Platt D.

Isolated rat livers were perfused with an immunoglobulin-free fluid containing
homologous rat erythrocytes suspended in an isotonic saline solution.
Galactosamine hepatitis and alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate cholestasis were induced
as experimental liver diseases. The glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (GOT) and
guanosine triphosphate (GPT) activities, the potassium level as well as the redox
quotients of lactate/pyruvate and beta-hydroxybutyrate/acetoacetate were
determined as liver function parameters.RESULTS: The same dose of galactosamine
led to two different types of reaction. The group suffering more damage
(rendering maximum GOT activities) phagocytosed significantly (p less than or
equal to 0.05) more erythrocytes than the other group. Galactosamine hepatitis
significantly slows down the phagocytosis of erythrocytes. The function of the
mononuclear phagocytosing cells in the liver is intact. The
alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) cholestasis significantly reduces the
capacity of the mononuclear phagocytosing cells in the liver. Young erythrocytes 
were phagocytosed significantly better than old ones in either type of liver
damage, in galactosamine hepatitis and in ANIT cholestasis as well as by healthy 
livers.

PMID: 3827405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1986 Dec;88(2):224-36.

Comparison of the serum hormone levels and histological findings in pituitary
adenomas.

Irsy G, Góth M, Bálint K, Slowik F, Szabolcs I, Pásztor E, Szilágyi G.

Thirty patients with pituitary adenomas were investigated: 20 with growth hormone
producing acromegaly, 7 with prolactinoma and 3 with hormonal inactive adenoma.
The correlation between the serum PRL, GH, TSH, levels, their response to 200
micrograms i.v. TRH, measured before the transsphenoidal adenomectomy and the
size, the light microscopic (H.E. and Mallory staining), immunocytochemical and
ultrastructural (performed in 17 cases) picture of the adenomas were
evaluated.CONCLUSIONS: (a) there is no close correlation between the hormone
granules detected in the pituitary adenoma cells - by light microscopic,
immunocytochemical and electron microscopic methods - and the serum hormone
levels, their response to TRH; (b) in hormonally active adenomas the
immunocytochemical as well as the ultrastructural findings could be negative; (c)
in one disease more hormones could give an immunopositive reaction; (d) in any
types of investigated adenomas the TSH immunopositivity was always accompanied by
PRL immunopositivity (6 cases); (e) the size and the clinical (serum) or
cytological hormone activity of the adenomas were independent of one another; (f)
the basal serum hormone level shows the hormonal activity of the pituitary
adenoma best of all.

PMID: 3104069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. G Ital Cardiol. 1986 Dec;16(12):987-95.

[Normal behavior during the exercise test of the left ventricular ejection
fraction determined by an angioscintigraphic method].

[Article in Italian]

Mazzotta G, Scopinaro G, Domenicucci S, Claudiani F, De Caro E, Vecchio C.

The correct definition of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) normal
response to exercise is still debated. The lack of unanimous agreement firstly
depends on the different normality criteria adopted in literature. In order to
make ligh, we carefully reviewed several papers on this matter, and performed
exercise radionuclide angiography (RNA), by multiple gated blood pool, in 2
different populations. I group: 39 normal subjects, selected on the basis of
normal clinical examinations, ECG, X-ray film, exercise test, at rest LVEF
greater than 50%: 20 males, mean age 43 +/- 13%. II group: 22 patients, abnormal 
from the clinical point of view, but elsewhere included in control groups: 13
males, mean age 54 +/- 9%. 14 of them refer only atypical chest pain, in 5 the
sole abnormal finding is an exercise-induced ST depression greater than 1 mm, in 
2 a left bundle branch block at rest, 1 patient suffers from X syndrome. Symptom 
limited exercise RNA was carried out by adopting a semi supine (40 degrees)
cycloergometer, with a 25 watt initial workload and 25 watt subsequent increases 
every 3 minutes; count acquisition lasted 2 minutes, from the end of the 1st to
the end of the 3rd, during each stage of the test.RESULTS: I group: constant LVEF
increment during exercise in all subjects: mean LVEF at rest was 65 +/- 8%, at
maximum workload 80 +/- 8%: mean increase was 15 +/- 7%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

PMID: 3556946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. Gan No Rinsho. 1986 Dec;32(15):1981-4.

[Advanced thyroid carcinoma--possible induction of the host's antitumor
immunological response by 131I therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugenoya A, Masuda H, Kasuga Y, Terai N, Yokozawa T, Kaneko G, Kobayashi S, Senga
O, Miyakawa M, Iida F.

The patient was a 76-year-old man. When he was 31, he had undergone right
lobectomy for thyroid cancer. Following this, had repeated recurrences, and
finally reached total-thyroidectomized status. Consequently, he was given
thyroxin and PS-K thereafter. When he was 75, 131I therapy was undertaken for
lung metastases. The changes of serum anti-microsomal antibody (AMA),
immunosuppressive substance (ISS) and thyroglobulin (TG) were as follows: three
months after the therapy, AMA was 40(2), although it had always been negative
before. Nine months later, ISS and TG markedly decreased.CONCLUSION: Under the
administration of immunomodulating agents, 131I therapy might induce antitumor
immunological responses by the effect of enhancement of cancer cell antigenicity.

PMID: 3806966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. Kidney Int. 1986 Dec;30(6):920-3.

Pulmonary gas exchange during hemodialysis.

Bouffard Y, Viale JP, Annat G, Guillaume C, Percival C, Bertrand O, Motin J.

Pulmonary gas exchange was continuously measured in 13 mechanically ventilated
patients during 24 hemodialyses for acute renal failure. Minute-ventilation was
maintained constant by controlled ventilation and gas exchange was continuously
measured by a mass-spectrometer system. Three groups were compared: a cuprophan
membrane with an acetate dialysate; a polyacrilonitrile membrane (PAN) with an
acetate dialysate; and PAN with a bicarbonate dialysate. Arterial PO2 and the O2 
alveolar-arterial gradient were the same regardless of the membrane used. [H+]
mildly decreased with all dialysates used. Arterial PCO2 decreased only with the 
acetate dialysate. O2 consumption increased, up to 20 +/- 5% of the initial
values during hemodialysis, and remained increased during the two hours following
the hemodialysis. Respiratory exchange ratio was lower after than before the
hemodialysis.IN CONCLUSION: the maintenance of a constant minute ventilation
prevented hemodialysis induced hypoxemia. VO2 increased during hemodialysis.

PMID: 3820942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1986 Dec;134(12):858-63.

[Ergometry procedures independent of body weight in children with special
reference to blood pressure behavior in stress].

[Article in German]

Kullmer T, Kindermann W.

For the purpose of investigating differences in terms of gender and methodology, 
a group of 80 healthy children engaged in leisure-time sport activities (male: n 
= 50; 10.9 +/- 1.1 years; female: n = 30; 11.5 +/- 1.1 years) was divided into 3 
groups, which were then subjected to different ergometric procedures. In group I,
boys and girls were compared in a bicycle ergometry in an upright seated
position. In group II, a bicycle ergometry in upright seated position was
compared with a bicycle ergometry in a supine position. In group III, a bicycle
ergometry in upright seated position was compared with a treadmill exercise.
Bicycle ergometry was started at 25 W; workload was increased in steps of 25 W
every 3 min until the children felt exhausted.RESULTS: No differences with
respect to gender were found for maximum oxygen uptake, maximum heart rate and
maximum lactate. The relevant parameters were also similar on submaximal levels
of exercise intensity. All children reached a degree of thorough physical
exhaustion at heart rates close to 200 X min-1. As in adults, maximum oxygen
uptake decreased in the following order: treadmill exercise greater than bicycle 
ergometry in upright seated position greater than bicycle in supine position.
Systolic and diastolic blood pressure on the various levels of exercise were
lower than among adults.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3821743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Respir Care. 1986 Dec;31(12):1207-10.

Bacterial colonization of ultrasonic nebulizers: implications for frequency of
circuit changing.

Witek TJ Jr, York R, Noonan R Jr, Topf BM, Hebb H, Kowalczyk J, Dean NL, Doubler 
K.

We conducted a prospective study of 50 consecutive postoperative patients over a 
5-month period to characterize the bacterial contamination of ultrasonic
nebulizers (USNs) after 24, 48, and 72 hours (h) of use.METHODS: Samples of the
USN effluent mist and reservoir fluid were cultured and the results were
correlated with clinical data from patient records, especially indications of
pneumonia or related infections.
RESULTS: Two thirds of the USNs were bacteria-free at the three times they were
tested. After 24 h, cultures of the mist revealed bacterial growth in only 1 of
the 50 patients. After 48 and 72 h, cultures of the mist showed bacterial growth 
in 6 instances (12%). Colonization of the reservoir fluid was also limited to 1
patient after 24 h. Reservoir-fluid cultures were positive in 10% of the USNs at 
48 h and in 18% at 72 h. No clinically significant signs of pneumonia developed
in any patient.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that colonization of USNs is minimal during
the first 72 h of use by postoperative patients with uncomplicated clinical
courses and that clinical consequences are unlikely in such patients even when
the USN is found to have been colonized. Although the Centers for Disease Control
has recommended daily changing of USN circuits, this practice may not be
warranted in all clinical settings. Further studies are needed to determine the
colonization of USNs used by patients with more complicated clinical courses.

PMID: 10315720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Respir Physiol. 1986 Dec;66(3):355-66.

Influence of lung volume on the mixing defect for an inert gas.

Van Liew HD, Lapennas GN, Murray KR.

For quantitative assessment of how gas mixing in the lung compares to the ideal
of perfect mixing, it is necessary to measure pre-inspiratory lung volume as well
as to study the inhaled and exhaled gas. Normal young-adult persons in the seated
position assumed various lung volumes and then took 1-L test breaths (11% Ar, 22%
O2 in N2). Integration of concentration at the mouth against volume yielded
amounts of Ar inhaled, exhaled and retained; un-exhaled concentration in the lung
after the single breath was calculated from amount retained divided by lung
volume (measured by rebreathing). Retention was 60% of the inhaled amount when
pre-inspiratory volume was above FRC and less when it was below. Series dead
space increased with lung volume. End-tidal Ar was the same as, or slightly
above, the concentration predicted for perfect mixing and un-exhaled Ar was
slightly below the perfect-mix concentration.INTERPRETATION: three separable
influences decrease the transfer of inspirate to the resident gas. A dilution
effect, predictable from the volumes involved, decreases retention at low lung
volumes. An enlarged series dead space decreases retention at high volumes. In
normal persons, a mixing defect that is attributable to poor distribution or
incomplete gas-phase diffusion is small and can be ascribed almost completely to 
the part of the expirate that gives rise to the slope of the alveolar plateau,
except when breaths are taken at very low lung volumes.

PMID: 3025987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Am J Med Sci. 1986 Nov;292(5):267-71.

The effect of methimazole on the development of spontaneous lymphocytic
thyroiditis in the diabetes-prone BB/W rat.

Allen EM, Rajatanavin R, Nogimori T, Cushing G, Ingbar SH, Braverman LE.

Methimazole (MMI) administration decreases the incidence and intensity of
experimentally induced lymphocytic thyroiditis (LT) in the female August rat and 
male A/J mouse. Spontaneous LT frequently occurs in the insulin-dependent type-I 
diabetic (DM) BB/W rat. Experiments were carried out to determine whether MMI
administration to BB/W rats from 30 to 120 days of age would affect the incidence
and intensity of spontaneous LT and the incidence of spontaneous DM. A total of
870 ng MMI/gm BW or saline (C) were administered ip daily to 77 BB/W rats
beginning at age 30 days. Rats were killed at 120 days, blood obtained for
measurement of serum T4, TSH, and anti-Tg Ab (ELISA), and thyroids removed for
histology. MMI administration was associated with a decrease in the incidence of 
LT (31% vs. 55%; p less than 0.05) but no difference in the severity of the LT.
Serum T4 was similar in the MMI and C groups, but serum TSH was slightly but
significantly higher in MMI treated rats [43 +/- 6 (mean +/- SE) microU/ml vs. 30
+/- 2.5; p less than 0.05]. Serum anti-Tg Ab levels increased with age but MMI
administration did not affect this rise. There was no significant difference in
the incidence of insulin-dependent DM between the MMI and C rats (MMI, 56%; C,
74%).CONCLUSION: MMI administration to the genetically predisposed
insulin-dependent diabetes and LT prone BB/W rat during the age when LT
spontaneously occurs reduced the incidence of LT.

PMID: 3777011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Anaesth Intensive Care. 1986 Nov;14(4):421-5.

Positive end-expiratory pressure increases plasma catecholamine levels in
non-volume loaded dogs.

Chernow B, Soldano S, Cook D, Lyons P, Barton M, Casey LC, Fletcher JR, Lake CR.

Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is commonly used in the treatment of
critically ill patients whose sympathetic nervous system is stressed; however,
PEEP's actions on sympathetic nervous system activity are unknown. We therefore
measured the plasma noradrenaline response (an index of sympathetic nervous
system activity) to graded doses of PEEP in nine mongrel dogs. After 30 minutes
at each level of PEEP, plasma noradrenaline concentrations increased from
baseline mean values of 300 (SD 108) pg/ml to 388 (SD 225) pg/ml (P less than
0.05) at 5 cm, 433 (SD 255) pg/ml (P less than 0.01) at 10 cm and 1194 (SD 882)
pg/ml (P less than 0.01) at 20 cm water pressure of PEEP. The increases in plasma
noradrenaline concentrations correlated inversely (r = -0.43, P less than 0.01)
with PEEP-induced changes in cardiac output. Plasma adrenaline levels did not
change significantly in response to 5 or 10 cm of PEEP; however, plasma
adrenaline increased, while heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure fell, at 
20 cm water pressure of PEEP (P less than 0.05). Within 15 minutes after
discontinuation of PEEP, the plasma catecholamine concentrations returned to
baseline levels.CONCLUSIONS: 1. PEEP significantly increases sympathetic nervous 
system activity in a rapid, dose-dependent, reversible manner; 2. the
PEEP-induced increases in sympathetic activity may explain the reductions in
organ blood flow which others have observed following the initiation of PEEP; 3. 
PEEP-related changes in sympathetic nervous system activity are a consequence of 
PEEP-induced reductions in cardiac output.

PMID: 3551676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1986 Nov;46(11):811-2.

[Significance of atypical hemorrhage in ovarian cancer].

[Article in German]

Schulz BO, Baker E, Krebs D, Oberheuser F, Werner A.

In a retrospective study on 167 ovarian cancer patients the presenting symptom
was defined via anamnesis. This parameter was correlated to others characterising
the cancer and the patient: age, parity, menopause, stage, extent of operation,
tumor residue, postoperative therapy, induction of remission and several
morphological data. The prognostic significance was analysed using Hazard-models 
(Cox 1972, Carter 1983) and contingency tables.RESULTS: The presenting signs and 
symptoms were: atypical bleeding in 44 patients, pain in 75 patients and other
signs in 48 patients. These signs and symptoms were significantly correlated with
tumor residue, and were more frequently seen in mucinous and endometrioid
carcinomas. There were no significant correlations to the other examined
parameters, but there was a trend for patients with atypical bleedings to be
diagnosed at early stages and their survival prognosis was significantly (p less 
than 0.01) better compared with that for patients with pain or other presenting
signs or symptoms.

PMID: 3803876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. J Steroid Biochem. 1986 Nov;25(5B):799-802.

Steroid dynamics in the normal and carcinomatous mammary gland.

Vermeulen A, Deslypere JP, Paridaens R.

As an approach to the study of the origin of estrogens in breast cancer tissue,
the concentration of estrogens and their androgen precursors, as well as
aromatase and 17 beta-dehydrogenase activities in normal glandular (GL) and
cancerous (CA) breast tissue were determined and correlations with plasma levels 
and/or receptor status were studied. In both normal GL and CA breast tissue,
steroid concentrations were significantly higher than plasma conc., except for
dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS), estrone sulphate (E1S) and testosterone 
(T). Androgen conc. were lower, but estrogen conc. were higher in CA than in GL
breast tissue. Estradiol (E2) conc. was positively correlated with the E2R conc.,
mean E2 conc. corresponding to an estimated E2R occupancy of about 25%. Aromatase
and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (E2DH) (E2----E1) activities were
observed in all breast CA and GL tissues, aromatase accounting probably only for 
a small fraction of tissue estrogens. E2DH, but not aromatase activity, was
significantly higher in E2R+ than in E2R- tissues and was negatively correlated
with tissue dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEAS conc.; the latter two
steroids are non competitive inhibitors of E2DH which inactivates E2 to
E1.CONCLUSION: in both normal and carcinomatous breast tissue, conc. of E1 and E2
are significantly higher than in plasma, suggesting either uptake or local
synthesis. As to the latter, aromatase activity accounts probably only for a
minor fraction of the tissue estrogens. Breast CA tissue has higher aromatase and
E2DH activity than normal glandular tissue, E2 conc. and E2DH activity being
higher in E2R+ hormone sensitive, tumors than in E2R-tumors. Tissue conc. of
DHEA(S) which inhibits oxidative inactivation of E2, is negatively correlated
with E2DH activity and may have an important modulating role in intratissular
estrogen metabolism.

PMID: 3027457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1986 Nov;9(6 Pt 2):1356-60.

Automatic implantable cardioverter/defibrillator (AICD) and antitachycardia
pacemaker (Tachylog): combined use in ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

Lüderitz B, Gerckens U, Manz M.

Antitachycardia pacing in ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VT) is associated with
potential acceleration of VT; frequency of VT and discomfort of the patient (pt) 
can limit treatment with the AICD. We therefore evaluated the combined use of
antitachycardia pacing and AICD in 6 of 14 patients (age 50-70, mean 60 years)
with AICD implantation because of VT, which could be terminated by temporary
overdrive pacing. With the interactive mode of the Tachylog, termination of VT by
the pacemaker as well as by the AICD was assessed after implantation. In the
automatic mode, the Tachylog functioned as a bipolar VVI device with
antitachycardia burst stimulation: 2-5 stimuli, interval 260-300 ms, 1-2
interventions. During follow-up of 12 +/- 5 months, the Tachylog terminated VT
reliably 20 to 327 times per patient. In three patients, burst stimulation
accelerated VT, which was terminated then by the AICD discharge.CONCLUSION: Drug 
resistant ventricular tachyarrhythmias can be terminated by the Tachylog
pacemaker avoiding patients' discomfort. In case of acceleration, ventricular
tachyarrhythmias can be controlled by the automatic implantable
cardioverter/defibrillator. A universal pacemaker should combine antitachycardia 
pacing with back-up defibrillation mode.

PMID: 2432562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Respir Care. 1986 Nov;31(11):1086-91.

Contamination of a multiple-use suction catheter in a closed-circuit system
compared to contamination of a disposable, single-use suction catheter.

Ritz R, Scott LR, Coyle MB, Pierson DJ.

Multiple-use (M-U) closed-system endotracheal suction catheters are effective in 
preventing arterial oxygen desaturation in patients on positive end-expiratory
pressure (PEEP) and may lessen the frequency of bradycardia and hypotension in
unstable patients who are prone to these complications of suctioning. However,
because M-U catheters remain attached to the ventilator circuit and are
reintroduced repeatedly into the patient's airway over 24 hours or longer, they
could become heavily contaminated with pathogens. We hypothesized a risk of
autocontamination to the patient by re-inoculation of the respiratory tract with 
organisms that flourished on the M-U catheter while it was isolated from the
patient's immune defenses or antibiotic therapy.METHODS: We tested this
hypothesis in 30 mechanically ventilated adult patients with positive sputum
cultures. We measured and compared the amount of bacteria present on an M-U
catheter at the end of a 24-hour use period, the amount of bacteria present in
the patient's sputum at that time, and the amount of bacteria present on a
single-use (S-U) catheter at that time, after it had made one pass into the
patient's airway. Organisms recovered and colony counts were also compared to
results of a sputum culture obtained before the study began.
RESULTS: Fourteen different pathogens or potential pathogens were recovered, in
numbers of 2 x 10(1) to 2 x 10(7)colony-forming units. The greatest number of
colonies was most often recovered from the sputum specimen, and statistical
analysis showed no differences in rate or magnitude of contamination between M-U 
and S-U catheters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 10315714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Respir Care. 1986 Nov;31(11):1083-5.

A simple technique for pulmonary function testing in patients with permanent
tracheostomies.

Benson MS, Carman CK, Pierson DJ.

In patients with permanent tracheostomies, the clinician can encounter difficulty
in creating a satisfactory seal between the patient and pulmonary function
testing (PFT) equipment. We have developed a simple apparatus and procedure for
effecting a tight seal during testing.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The seal around the 
tracheostomy is made with a newborn-size resuscitation mask, the hole of which is
larger than the tracheal stoma. A sealing lubricant is applied to the soft rim of
the mask and around the tracheostomy site, and adapters enable connection of the 
resuscitation mask and the large-bore PFT-equipment tubing. After affixing the
adapters to the mask, we check that the seal is tight; if airleak is evident,
more lubricant or a mask of different size or style may be necessary. Once a
tight seal is achieved without airway compromise, the mask is attached to the PFT
equipment and testing can begin. During testing, the patient should wear nose
clips to prevent volume loss through the upper airway.
COMMENTS: This equipment is simple, inexpensive, and readily available. Further, 
it permits pulmonary function testing whether or not a tracheostomy tube is in
place, an advantage if variable extrathoracic upper airway obstruction is a
consideration. If the patient has a cuffed tracheostomy tube in place, the PFT
equipment can be connected directly to the tube. We have found that this
apparatus and technique are well tolerated and that test results are
reproducible.

PMID: 10315713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Z Kardiol. 1986 Nov;75(11):646-9.

[Determinants of long-term prognosis following prosthetic mitral valve
replacement].

[Article in German]

Schwarz F, Böttger J, Ruffmann K, Scheurlen H, Olschewski M, Storch HH, Saggau W,
Kübler W.

Data of 235 patients with chronic mitral valve disease (NYHA class III or IV)
were analyzed retrospectively. Mitral valve replacement was performed in all
patients between 1974 and 1983, 46 patients underwent additional tricuspid valve 
repair during the same operation. Preoperatively, right and left heart
catheterization as well as coronary angiography were carried out in all patients.
Operative mortality was 8%. For all patients 5 year survival rate was 76% and 10 
year survival rate was 72%. Patients with pure mitral insufficiency had a poorer 
long-term prognosis than patients with mitral stenosis or patients with mixed
mitral valve disease (5 year survival rate 54 versus 79%, p less than 0.0014).
Patients with previous closed mitral commissurotomy had a poorer long-term
prognosis than patients without previous surgery (5 year survival rate 62 versus 
81%, p less than 0.0019). Age, NYHA class, associated tricuspid valve repair,
pulmonary vascular resistance and mean right atrial pressure had no effect on
survival.CONCLUSION: Long-term survival is generally good after mitral valve
replacement, but pure mitral insufficiency and previous closed mitral
commissurotomy are risk factors for long-term prognosis.

PMID: 3811462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Ann Surg. 1986 Oct;204(4):346-55.

Splenopancreatic disconnection. Improved selectivity of distal splenorenal shunt.

Warren WD, Millikan WJ Jr, Henderson JM, Abu-Elmagd KM, Galloway JR, Shires GT
3rd, Richards WO, Salam AA, Kutner MH.

Distal splenorenal shunt (DSRS) improves survival from variceal bleeding in
nonalcoholic cirrhotics but not in alcoholic subjects. The metabolic response
after DSRS is also different in alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhotics. Portal
perfusion, quality of blood perfusing the liver, cardiac output, and liver blood 
flow do not change in nonalcoholics. In alcoholics, portal perfusion is
frequently lost (60%), quality of blood perfusing the liver decreases, and
cardiac output and liver blood flow increase. It is proposed that portal flow is 
lost in alcoholics via pancreatic and colonic collaterals after surgery.
Elimination of this sump by adding complete dissection of the splenic vein and
division of the splenocolic ligament to DSRS (splenopancreatic disconnection,
SPD) could preserve portal perfusion, decrease shunt loss of hepatotrophic
factor, and improve survival in alcoholic cirrhotics. This report compares data 1
year after surgery in two groups of cirrhotics: group I (8 nonalcoholic; 16
alcoholic) had DSRS without SPD; group II (17 nonalcoholic; 11 alcoholic)
received DSRS + SPD.METHODS: Portal perfusion grade, cardiac output (CO), liver
blood flow (f), hepatic function (GEC), and hepatic volume (vol) were measured
before and 1 year after surgery. Shunt loss of hepatotrophic factor was estimated
by insulin response (change in plasma concentration over 10 minutes: AUC) after
arginine stimulation.
RESULTS: Groups I and II were similar before surgery. Metabolically,
nonalcoholics remained stable after both DSRS and DSRS + SPD. After standard
DSRS, alcoholics lost portal perfusion (75%, p less than 0.05), CO, and f
increased (p less than 0.05), and quality of blood perfusing the liver was
decreased (GEC/f: p less than 0.05). DSRS + SPD preserved portal perfusion better
(p less than 0.05) in alcoholic cirrhotics than did DSRS alone. After DSRS + SPD,
the metabolic response in alcoholics resembled that of nonalcoholics. CO, f, and 
GEC/f remained stable. These data show: DSRS + SPD preserves postoperative portal
perfusion in alcoholic cirrhotics better than DSRS alone. Metabolic response to
DSRS + SPD is similar in alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhotics. Because portal
perfusion and metabolic integrity are preserved after DSRS + SPD, its use in
alcoholic cirrhotics should improve survival.

PMCID: PMC1251296
PMID: 3532968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Arzneimittelforschung. 1986 Oct;36(10):1528-31.

Effects of oral nisoldipine in ischemic heart disease. A radioisotopic study.

Tartagni F, Rùggiero S, Melandri G, Beato E, Dondi M, Monetti N, Magnani B.

Nisoldipine (Bay k 5552) is the most potent calcium antagonist known; yet, its
cardiovascular effects in man are still under investigation. In the present study
10 consecutive male patients with isolated significant lesion on the left
anterior descending coronary artery underwent ECG gated nuclear ventriculography 
at rest and during submaximal bicycle exercise in the supine position. Following 
the oral administration of 10 mg of nisoldipine the study was repeated at 90 and 
180 min, with the patient in the same position and with the same work load. Left 
ventricular ejection fraction (EF), end-systolic blood volume index (ESBVI),
end-diastolic blood volume index (EDBVI), stroke volume index (SVI), peak left
ventricular ejection rate (PER), peak left ventricular filling rate (PFR), time
to PER (TPER) and time to PFR (TPFR), and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) were
evaluated, regional wall motion was also judged by three independent observers.
At rest, a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease of SVR and systolic blood
pressure (SBP) was found; a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease of diastolic
blood pressure (DBP) and an increase (p less than 0.05) of heart rate (HR), EDBVI
and PFR were also registered, the other indexes resulting unaffected. During
exercise the reduction of SVR was confirmed. An improvement of the wall motion
was found in 4 out of 11 segments at rest and in 9 out of 17 under
stress.CONCLUSIONS: nisoldipine shows a predominant peripheral effect, without
impairment of cardiac contractility; the improvement of the wall motion of the
ischemic regions achieved at similar levels of double product suggests an
increased coronary blood flow and a metabolic amelioration.

PMID: 3814214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. G Ital Cardiol. 1986 Oct;16(10):845-54.

[Use of amrinone in refractory cardiac insufficiency: clinical and hemodynamic
evaluation].

[Article in Italian]

Massari FM, De Martini M, Foresti A, Valentini R, Bertoni T, Lotto A.

Amrinone is a nonadrenergic, nonglycosidic agent with combined positive inotropic
and vasodilator properties. To determine its clinical and hemodynamic effects we 
treated 14 patients (12 men and 2 women ranging in age from 36 to 78 years, mean 
56) with severe chronic heart failure (New York Heart Association functional
class IIIa or IVa) not controlled by conventional therapy. Drug administration: 1
mg/Kg intravenous bolus followed by infusion of 10 mcg/Kg/min over 24 hours; in
11 patients, upon termination of long term infusion, oral therapy was begun (100 
mg tid) for a period of four weeks. After bolus and during infusion dyspnea,
pulmonary and jugular vein congestion, hepatomegaly rapidly improved, and
increase of diuresis was noted. All patients responded with a substantial
reduction in central venous pressure (CVP 9.64 +/- 5.96----4.79 +/- 5.66 mmHg, P 
less than 0.01), wedge pressure (WP 26.3 +/- 4.6----19.00 +/- 4.66 mmHg, P less
than 0.01), pulmonary and systemic vascular resistances (PVR 212.07 +/-
121.08----127.64 +/- 50.37 dyne. sec. cm-5; SVR 1687 +/- 301----1297 +/- 357
dyne. sec. cm-5; P less than 0.01); these changes were accompanied by an increase
of cardiac index (CI 1.96 +/- 0.38----2.84 +/- 0.83 L/Min/m2; P less than 0.01), 
stroke index (SI 23.43 +/- 5.85----31.64 +/- 8.86; P less than 0.01) and left
ventricular stroke index (LVSWI 22.36 +/- 8.45----34.50 +/- 12.29 g.m/b/m2; P
less than 0.01). These positive clinical and hemodynamic effects were not
maintained in long term therapy. Moreover we observed adverse effects: fever,
nausea and vomiting, thrombocytopenia, liver enzyme elevation, tachycardia and
ventricular arrhythmias.CONCLUSIONS: good efficacy and tolerability during short 
term intravenous therapy in emergency conditions; no clinical improvement and
sometimes adverse effects in oral long term therapy.

PMID: 3817367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1986 Oct;46(10):700-5.

[Rheography in pregnancy--a noninvasive method of early detection of placental
insufficiency].

[Article in German]

Feiks A, Nowotny C, Gruber W, Preisinger E, Trnavsky G, Janisch H.

Intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) is a major obstetrical problem. About 20% 
of stillbirths are growth retarded. Increased vascular resistance is suspected to
cause preeclampsia and IUGR. Our study used rheography 1. to show the change of
vascular resistance during pregnancy, 2. to scrutinize any connections between
maternal peripheral perfusion and the development of IUGR. For the first part of 
the study 168 healthy pregnant women of different gestational age were studied to
examine the physiological conditions of peripheral haemoperfusion. In the second 
part we employed rheography in 177 cases of last trimester pregnancies. The
parameter used was the rheographic quotient (RQ), defined as the volume of the
pulse wave. To compare RQ values of patients with different heart frequencies
these values were multiplied by the pulse rate per second (relative pulse volume,
Pr).RESULTS: 1. RQ values remained nearly constant during the first trimester
(0.7%). During the second trimester a noticeable increase in RQ was found,
leading to RQ values of about 1.3% in the third trimester. From the 28th week
until delivery no further significant changes occurred. Using Pr, our data showed
increased values from the 16th gestational week onwards. Early-stage values
(0.8%/sec) increased more than twofold (1.7%/sec) until delivery. 2. Out of 177
pregnancies, 26 led to newborn below the 10th percentile (mean = 2230 g).
Rheographic data showed highly significant differences between the AGA and SGA
groups: the mean RQ values of the AGA sample was 1.2 +/- 0.4%, of the SGA sample 
0.6 +/- 0.35% (p less than 0.0001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3803864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Gut. 1986 Oct;27(10):1120-6.

Oesophageal and gastric motility disorders in patients categorised as having
primary anorexia nervosa.

Stacher G, Kiss A, Wiesnagrotzki S, Bergmann H, Höbart J, Schneider C.

Gastrointestinal motor function in patients with primary anorexia nervosa has
rarely been investigated. We studied oesophageal motor activity in 30 consecutive
patients meeting standard diagnostic criteria for primary anorexia nervosa
(Feighner et al; DSM III). Seven were found to suffer from achalasia instead of
primary anorexia nervosa, one from diffuse oesophageal spasm and one from severe 
gastro-oesophageal reflux and upper oesophageal sphincter hypertonicity, while
partly non-propulsive and repetitive high amplitude, long duration contractions
prevailed in the lower oesophagus of another six. In four patients with
oesophageal dysmotility not responding to therapy and in 12 of 15 patients with
normal oesophageal manometry, gastric emptying of a semisolid meal was studied.
Emptying was normal in only three but markedly delayed in 13 cases (half emptying
times 97-330 min, median: 147 min, as compared with 21-119 min, median: 47 min,
in 24 healthy controls). In eight patients, the effects of domperidone 10 mg iv
and placebo were compared under random double blind conditions. Half emptying
times were shortened significantly (p less than 0.01) by domperidone.CONCLUSIONS:
symptoms of disordered upper gastrointestinal motor activity may be mistaken as
indicating primary anorexia nervosa; clinical evaluation of patients with
presumed primary anorexia nervosa should rule out the possibility that disordered
oesophageal motor activity underlies the symptoms; delayed gastric emptying is a 
frequent feature in primary anorexia nervosa and might be returned to normal with
domperidone.

PMCID: PMC1433863
PMID: 3781322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. J Steroid Biochem. 1986 Oct;25(4):483-7.

Circadian variation of cytosol glucocorticoid receptors in human
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and mononuclear cells (MN) in a normal
population.

Doe RP, Goldman PM, Severson SP, Hruby HM.

Glucocorticoid cytosol and whole cell receptors from human PMN's have been
quantified, and compared to those of human MN leukocytes on the same blood
sample. The normal cytosol PMN receptor density (N = 15) averaged 1,254 +/- 105
(SE) molecules bound/cell at 0900 h and increased significantly to 1,497 +/- 98
at 2,100 h (P less than 0.02). MN cell cytosol receptor density was 1,198 +/- 145
at 0900 h and increased significantly to 1,551 +/- 117 molecules bound/cell at
2,100 h (P less than 0.01). Corresponding whole cell receptor densities at 0900 h
were 2,845 +/- 273 (PMN) and 3,547 +/- 290 (MN) and these did not change
significantly at 2,100 h.CONCLUSIONS: Cytosol receptors in normal human PMN and
MN cells increased significantly at 2,100 h from the 0900 h level while serum
cortisol levels were dropping. Whole cell receptors in the same PMN and MN cell
samples did not change significantly between 0900 and 2,100 h. The normal
circadian variation in serum cortisol influences the distribution of the
glucocorticoid receptor between the cytosol and the nucleus, but does not
influence the amount of receptor available to the whole cell. This is the first
time that an endogenous physiological variation of cortisol concentration has
been utilized to demonstrate a corresponding change in receptor capacity in vivo.

PMID: 3773521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Respir Physiol. 1986 Oct;66(1):1-9.

Effects of lung volume and airflow on the frequency spectrum of vesicular lung
sounds.

Kraman SS.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether the vesicular lung sound
frequency spectrum is affected by changes in lung volume and airflow. Nine
healthy young nonsmokers were studied. The dependent variables were the points
that divide the power spectrum of the vesicular lung sound into quarters (1st,
2nd and 3rd quartiles (Q1, Q2 and Q3]. Recording sites were the right upper
anterior (RUL) and lower posterior (RLL) chest wall. Lung sounds were high-pass
filtered at 100 Hz. To evaluate the effect of volume, lung sounds were recorded
during an inspiratory vital capacity (VC) maneuver at near constant airflow
rates. The spectral parameters were determined at each sixth of the VC. To assess
the effects of airflow, 5 of the subjects breathed from resting lung volume at
peak inspiratory airflows of between 1 and 3.0 L/sec for a total of 16 breaths
each and the frequency parameters of the lung sounds occurring during peak
inspiratory airflows were determined.RESULTS: Volume effects: only at the RUL was
there a small but significant decrease in all three parameters with increasing
lung volume. Airflow effects: all parameters were independent of airflow except
for a weakly positive relationship (r = 0.285, P less than 0.05) for Q3 at the
RUL location. Individually, there were weakly significant trends in three of the 
five subjects. These data suggest that the frequency composition of the vesicular
lung sound in groups of healthy adults is not systematically affected by changes 
in lung volume or airflow.

PMID: 3786972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Unfallchirurgie. 1986 Oct;12(5):241-6.

[Treatment tactics and late results in early infection following osteosynthesis].

[Article in German]

Willenegger H, Roth B.

On the basis of long term results (five to 29 years), the treatment of
postoperative wound infection after internal fixation (40 shaft fractures) is
outlined. Of decisive importance is the immediate surgical intervention as soon
as the first clinical signs of infection become evident.PROCEDURE: opening of the
wound, leaving stable implants in situ, temporary irrigation drainage.
RESULTS: in 31 cases spontaneous bone healing without bone grafting. Only in nine
cases a residual infected focus needed cancellous bone grafting (in five of these
cases additional surgical stabilisation, in the other four cases the bone itself 
was already sufficiently stable). In 35 patients full restoration of working
capacity; in 33 patients full functional repair.

PMID: 3798588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Sep 19;111(38):1435-9.

[Acetylcholine receptor antibodies in the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Study
of 406 confirmed cases].

[Article in German]

Toyka KV, Heininger K.

Antibodies against acetylcholine antibodies in the IgG fraction were determined
in 342 patients with clinically confirmed generalized myasthenia gravis and in 64
patients with purely ocular myasthenia. The standard immunoprecipitation assay
was used with detergent-extracted and 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin-marked human
acetylcholine receptors as antibodies. 340 patients with generalized myasthenia
and 29 with purely ocular myasthenia (99% and 45%, respectively) had titres above
0.5 nmol/l; two with generalized and five with ocular myasthenia had borderline
levels (0.4 nmol/l). Titres below 0.4 nmol/l were obtained in patients with
non-myasthenic oculomotor diseases (82) and other neuromuscular diseases (111).
Abnormal titres were also obtained in five patients with malignant thymoma but no
clinical myasthenia and one child with an immunoneuropathy. Using acetylcholine
receptors from human eye muscles as antigen there was no difference between
ocular myasthenia and myasthenia initially with ocular signs but later becoming
generalized. Bungarotoxin-blocking antibodies were found in lower concentrations 
in 32 of 65 patients examined. Serial examinations demonstrated intra-individual 
but not linear correlations with myasthenic signs.CONCLUSION: Antibody
determination is a useful and highly specific addition to the diagnostic
armamentarium and is suitable for controlling treatment in patients severely
affected by the disease.

PMID: 3757800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1986 Sep 12;98(17):573-7.

[Course and blood coagulation findings following systemic short-term fibrinolysis
in acute myocardial infarct].

[Article in German]

Nobis H, Enenkel W, Hopmeier P, Lorber J, Fischer M, Prachar H.

A series of 16 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction was
investigated with respect to changes in coagulatory parameters after intravenous 
short-term treatment with 1,500 000 IU streptokinase (SK) over a period of 90
minutes. Samples for coagulation assays (fibrinogen, thrombin, time activated
partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), normotest, thrombin-coagulase time,
platelets, antithrombin III, plasminogen and antiplasmin activity, alpha
2-macroglobulin, alpha 1-antitrypsin, factor X a were collected before and
immediately after iv SK, and after 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 72 hours. Platelets, 
antithrombin III, factor X a, alpha 1-antitrypsin and alpha 2-macroglobulin
showed no changes over the observed period. The concentrations of fibrinogen and 
the activities of plasminogen and antiplasmin decreased clearly during the first 
24 hours, reaching a minimum immediately after SK administration. Thrombin time
and aPTT were prolonged for 36 hours, with a maximum in the first hours after
lysis.CONCLUSIONS: Invasive diagnostic and/or therapeutic procedures during the
first 24 hours after SK lysis should be carried out only for a definite, strict
indication and under repeated control of the coagulatory status. After 24-36
hours there is a trend to normalisation of haemostasis. After 36 hours, surgery
may be performed without fear of complications due to abnormal coagulability.

PMID: 3765645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Sep 5;111(36):1347-51.

[Heart valve replacement in patients over 60].

[Article in German]

Flachskampf FA, Lambertz H, Wohltmann D, Bardos P, Minale C, Messmer BJ, Effert
S.

Between 1976 and 1984, 182 patients over 60 years with valvular defects were
examined invasively and valve replacement was performed. 34 patients (19%) were
older than 70 years. Hospital mortality was 2% in aortic valve replacement, 4% in
mitral valve and 8% in double valve replacement. Overall early mortality in
patients between 60 and 70 years of age was 3.4% and 6% in patients over 70 years
for all operations. Simultaneous aortocoronary bypass surgery did not enhance the
operation risk. During the follow-up period of 23 +/- 22 months a total of 21
patients died (12%). Only 4% of the survivals showed clinical deterioration by at
least one NYHA class. Clinical tendency to improvement was as clearly evident
among the patients of over 70 years of age as among the entire group.
Preoperative invasive and noninvasive data do not display any significant
correlation with the result of surgery. Significantly higher (P less than 0.05)
mortality rates or inferior functional operation results were seen only with
higher age, a preceding valve operation, and preoperative NYHA class
IV.CONCLUSION: In elderly patients indication for valve replacement should not be
more restrictive than in younger ones. Postponement of valve replacement in these
age groups until the patient experiences symptoms when at rest (NYHA class IV)
will adversely affect the chances of success and increase the mortality risk.

PMID: 3743446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Sep 5;111(36):1363-7.

[Protective effect of the calcium antagonist diltiazem on acute kidney failure
following kidney transplantation. The results of a prospective randomized study].

[Article in German]

Wagner K, Albrecht S, Neumayer HH.

In a prospective randomised study the effect of the calcium antagonist diltiazem 
on primary transplant failure following cadaver kidney transplantation was
studied. The transplants were perfused with a solution containing 20 mg/l
diltiazem, the graft recipient received diltiazem as a bolus injection of 0.28
mg/kg pre-operatively, followed by a continuous infusion of 0.0022 mg/kg X min
for 48 hours. Thereafter diltiazem was applied orally (twice 60 mg/d). Glomerular
filtration rate and renal blood flow were measured by single-shot techniques
(inulin, PAH). For immunosuppression ciclosporin A and low-dose
methylprednisolone were given. Nine patients (41%) in the control group (n = 22) 
but only two (10%) in the diltiazem group (n = 20) developed primary transplant
failure (P less than 0.05). Glomerular filtration rate in transplants with
primary function was significantly higher in the diltiazem group (day 4: 29 +/-
0.8 vs. 20 +/- 0.8; day 7: 39 +/- 1.4 vs. 24.9 +/- 0.7 ml/min, P less than 0.05) 
although ciclosporin blood levels were significantly higher in this group (week
1: 1150 vs. 728 ng/ml, P less than 0.01). The rate of rejection episodes was
significantly higher in controls than in patients on diltiazem (0.5 +/- 0.05 vs. 
0.1 +/- 0.02 rejection episodes per patient in the first postoperative month, P
less than 0.05).CONCLUSION: Diltiazem has a protective effect against primary
transplant failure following cadaver kidney transplantation. Furthermore, it
might reduce the nephrotoxicity of ciclosporin A.

PMID: 3527645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1986 Sep-Oct;14(5):383-91.

Immunotherapy with standard bacterial and bacterial ribosomal antigens in
childhood bronchial asthma.

Sánchez Palacios A, Quintero A, Martín Escudero JC, San José Díez J, Sánchez
Palacios MA.

In this study we compared the therapeutic effectiveness of a lyophilized
bacterial vaccine (LBV) with that of a vaccine prepared from bacterial ribosomal 
antigens (ARB) in 150 children with bacterial bronchial asthma. The immunological
response of the patients was assessed clinically at 6 months, 1 year and 3 years,
by determining the intensity and frequency of the bronchospasm. The serum
immunoglobulin levels, the only immunologic parametres studied, were determined
at basal conditions and following immunotherapy.CLINICAL RESULTS: after 360 days 
we detected a better clinical response in those patients who received the
ribosomal vaccine (ARB), whereas after 3 years there was no difference in the
clinical response between this group of patients and the group who received the
bacterial vaccine (LBV). Immunological results: we were not able to show a
statistically significant increase in immunoglobulin levels during the three
years of immunotherapy with the two vaccines. However, those patients who
possessed a deficit in IgG displayed a statistically significant increase in IgG 
levels after 360 days (t = 3.58, p less than 0.01), and an even greater increase 
after 1080 days (t = 7.86, p less than 0.001), of treatment with the standard
bacterial vaccine. The ribosomal vaccine produced a significant increase in IgG
levels (t = 9.59, p less than 0.001) after 1080 days also in patients with a
deficit in IgG. In patients with a previous deficit in IgA we did not observe an 
increase in serum IgA levels during immunotherapy with the bacterial vaccine, but
with the ribosomal vaccine these patients displayed significantly higher levels
of IgA (t = 13.09, p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3799407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. Planta. 1986 Sep;168(4):482-92. doi: 10.1007/BF00392267.

Expression of nuclear genes as affected by treatments acting on the plastids.

Oelmüller R(1), Levitan I, Bergfeld R, Rajasekhar VK, Mohr H.

Author information: 
(1)Biologisches Institut II der Universität, Schänzlestraße 1, D-7800, Freiburg,
Federal Republic of Germany.

In a preceding paper (Oelmüller and Mohr 1986, Planta 167, 106-113) it was shown 
that in the cotyledons of the mustard (Sinapis alba L.) seedling the integrity of
the plastid is a necessary prerequisite for phytochrome-controlled appearance of 
translatable mRNA for the nuclear-encoded small subunit (SSU) of
ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and the light-harvesting chlorophyll
a/b-binding protein of photosystem II (LHCP). It was concluded that a signal from
the plastid is essential for the expression of nuclear genes involved in
plastidogenesis. The present study was undertaken to characterize this postulated
signal. Chloramphenicol, an inhibitor of intraplastidic protein synthesis and
Norflurazon, an inhibitor of carotenoid synthesis (to bring about photooxidative 
sensitivity of the plastids) were applied. We obtained the following major
results. (i) After a brief period of photooxidative damage a rapid decrease of
the above translatable mRNAs was observed.CONCLUSION: the signal is short-lived
and thus required continually. (ii) Once the plastids became damaged by
photooxidation, no recovery with regard to nuclear gene expression was observed
after a transfer to non-damaging light conditions.
CONCLUSION: even a brief period of damage suffices to prevent production of the
signal. (iii) Chloramphenicol inhibited nuclear gene expression (SSU, LHCP) and
plastidic development when applied during the early stages of plastidogenesis.
Once a certain stage had been reached (between 36-48 h after sowing at 25° C)
nuclear gene expression became remarkably insensitive toward inhibition of
intraplastidic translation.
CONCLUSION: a certain developmental stage of the plastid must be reached before
the signal is released by the plastid. (iv) Under the growth conditions we
adopted in our experiments the plastids in the mesophyll cells of mustard
cotyledons developed essentially between 36 and 120 (-144) h after sowing. Only
during this period could translatable mRNAs for SSU and LHCP be detected.
CONCLUSION: the signal is released by the plastids only during this time span.

PMID: 24232324  [PubMed]


1435. Respir Care. 1986 Sep;31(9):786-91.

An evaluation of the P.K. Morgan pocket spirometer.

Hess D, Lehman E, Troup J, Smoker J.

The P. K. Morgan pocket spirometer, which has recently become available in the
United States, is small, portable, relatively inexpensive, and measures forced
vital capacity (FVC) and the forced exhaled volume in 1 second (FEV1). We
conducted this study to evaluate the accuracy of the FVC and FEV1 measurements by
the P.K. Morgan spirometer.METHODS: The flow signal used to evaluate the Morgan
spirometer was produced by a Vent-Aid TTL Training Test Lung. The flow of air
from the test lung was directed in series through the Morgan's volume transducer 
and into the bell of a 9-L Collins water-sealed spirometer.
RESULTS: The difference between Collins mean FVC and Morgan mean FVC was not
significant (P = 0.17). The correlation coefficient for the relationship between 
Collins FVC and Morgan FVC was 0.996. American Thoracic Society (ATS) standards
for accuracy were met by 56% of the FVC volumes measured by the Morgan. The
difference between Collins mean FEV1 and Morgan mean FEV1 was clinically small
but statistically significant (P = 0.01). The correlation coefficient for the
relationship between Collins FEV1 and Morgan FEV1 was 0.999. ATS standards for
accuracy were met by 87% of the FEV1 volumes measured by the Morgan.
CONCLUSION: The overall accuracy of the Morgan spirometer is adequate for bedside
screening, but its accuracy is not sufficient to allow it to be used for
diagnostic spirometry in place of more accurate pulmonary function equipment.

PMID: 10315706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1986 Aug;13(8):2667-70.

[Complete remission in a case of concurrent breast and thyroid cancers with
metastatic spinal paralysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohganè T, Niwa M, Kure M.

A case of right breast and thyroid cancer is reported in which, despite
metastasis to the spinal cord occurring 1 year after mastectomy, satisfactory
therapeutic results were obtained. At the time of her first examination the
patient had spastic paresis involving all segmental levels below Th7. Bone
scintigraphy disclosed multiple hot areas in the spinal column, centering around 
Th5 6. On myelography, complete block was noted above the lower margins of the
vertebral body of Th5. The paresis progressed to result in a complete loss of
touch and pain sensations with flaccid paralysis of both lower extremities.
Laminectomy of Th4-6 was therefore performed on the 20th day of hospitalization. 
Biopsy at that time demonstrated the metastasis to be from the breast cancer.
Radiotherapy (Linac, 600 rad/w) was started at the 20th postoperative day, a
total dose of 3,000 rad being given. Physicotherapy was instituted
simultaneously. As drug therapy, OK-432 and FT-207 suppositories (750 mg) were
used in addition to diethylstilbestrol, 300 mg/day.RESULTS: After 6 months of
these combined therapeutic regimens the patient became capable of moving along
the edge of the bed with the aid of a good hand and leg. After 7 months she
underwent radical surgery for the thyroid cancer and 3 months later she was
discharged asymptomatic.

PMID: 3090942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Gastroenterol Jpn. 1986 Aug;21(4):336-43.

Lymphoid cell subsets in normal human small intestine.

Chiba M, Ohta H, Nagasaki A, Arakawa H, Masamune O.

Erratum in
    Gastroenterol Jpn 1986 Dec;21(6):654.

Nineteen specimens of normal tissue were obtained from the duodenum, upper
jejunum and terminal ileum. Specimens were fixed with
periodate-lysine-paraformaldehyde and then frozen sections were made. Lymphoid
cell subsets were identified by indirect immunoperoxidase staining using mouse
anti-human monoclonal antibodies.RESULTS: There was a remarkable variation in the
distribution of positive cells among individuals and even within single sections.
Lymphoid cell subsets of the three parts of the small intestine were almost
identical except for the difference in IgA subclasses of IgA-containing cells.
IgA1 predominated over IgA2 in the jejunum while IgA2 predominated over IgA1 in
the ileum. The subsets in the lamina propria (LP) and in the epithelium were
clearly distinct; Leu 3+ (helper/inducer T) predominated in LP while Leu 2+
(suppressor/cytotoxic T) predominated in the epithelium and no Ig-containing
cells were found in the epithelium. In LP the mean ratio of Leu 1+ (pan T):IgA
(IgA1 + IgA2) containing cells: IgM: IgG: IgD: IgE: HNK-1+ was 48.9: 36.6: 9.0:
1.8: 1.0: 0.3: 2.4. The staining patterns of HLA-DR+ and Leu 10+ were similar;
dense in the top in LP of the villi. In some individuals the apical portion of
epithelial cells was stained by anti-HLA-DR. A few positive cells were observed
in only two out of 19 cases by anti IL-2R.

PMID: 3095166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1986 Aug;8(2):294-300.

Analysis of the resetting phenomenon in sustained uniform ventricular
tachycardia: incidence and relation to termination.

Almendral JM, Rosenthal ME, Stamato NJ, Marchlinski FE, Buxton AE, Frame LH,
Miller JM, Josephson ME.

Although the phenomenon of resetting has been studied in several experimental and
clinical rhythms, it has not been systematically analyzed in ventricular
tachycardia. To define the incidence and determinants of resetting as well as its
relation to ventricular tachycardia termination, the response to programmed
stimulation was prospectively studied during 78 electrically induced episodes of 
sustained, uniform ventricular tachycardia (mean cycle length 365 +/- 59 ms) in
53 patients. Single and double ventricular extrastimuli were introduced during 78
and 39 episodes of ventricular tachycardia, respectively. Rapid ventricular
pacing was performed during 27 episodes. Resetting occurred in response to single
ventricular extrastimuli in 43 (55%) of 78 ventricular tachycardias, to double
extrastimuli in 31 (79%) of 39 ventricular tachycardias and to rapid pacing in 23
(85%) of 27 ventricular tachycardias. No ventricular tachycardia characteristic
distinguished those tachycardias that were reset from those not reset.
Termination of ventricular tachycardia occurred in 7 (9%) of 78 episodes with
single ventricular extrastimuli, 14 (36%) of 39 episodes with double ventricular 
extrastimuli and 13 (48%) of 27 episodes with rapid pacing. Termination was less 
frequent than resetting with both single (9 versus 55%) and double (36 versus
79%) extrastimuli, as well as rapid pacing (48 versus 85%). Resetting preceded
termination in 7 of 7 ventricular tachycardias terminated with single ventricular
extrastimuli, 12 of 14 terminated with double ventricular extrastimuli and 9 of
13 terminated by rapid pacing. Ventricular tachycardias that were terminated
could not be differentiated from those that were reset without termination.IN
CONCLUSION: Resetting with programmed extrastimuli is common in hemodynamically
stable sustained ventricular tachycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3734253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. J Chem Ecol. 1986 Aug;12(8):1797-803. doi: 10.1007/BF01022384.

Portal serum constituents possible determinants for anatomical localization
ofSchistosoma mansoni during maturation and reproduction.

Wu GY(1), Wu CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine Division of Gastroenterology, University of Connecticut
School of Medicine, 06032, Farmington, Connecticut.

Coupled adult pairs ofSchistosoma mansoni were incubated in medium containing
either peripheral or portal serum from rat, rabbit, hamster, or man, and egg
production was measured daily. In all cases egg production was significantly
increased for pairs in the presence of portal sera compared with that in the
presence of peripheral sera. Fractionation of rabbit portal serum according to
molecular weight demonstrated that the most active component(s) were in the range
of 2000 to 50,000. Similarly, a rat portal serum fraction in the range of 2000 to
30,000 molecular weight was most stimulatory. These fractions were as effective
in stimulating oviposition as whole portal serum.CONCLUSIONS: (1) portal serum
factor(s) exist that stimulateS. mansoni oviposition in vitro; (2) they are
present in susceptible and nonsusceptible hosts; and (3) the molecular weight
range for the active components is larger than would be expected for simple
carbohydrates, amino acids, or free fatty acids absorbed from the
gastrointestinal tract.

PMID: 24305896  [PubMed]


1440. Jpn J Antibiot. 1986 Aug;39(8):1988-2008.

[Bacteriological, pharmacokinetic and clinical evaluations of ceftriaxone in the 
pediatric field. Pediatric study group of ceftriaxone].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujii R, Meguro H, Arimasu O, Tagaya M, Fujita K, Sakata H, Yoshioka H, Maruyama 
S, Sanae N, Nagamatsu I, et al.

Ceftriaxone (CTRX), a new injectable cephem antibiotic agent, was evaluated
bacteriologically and clinically for its efficacy and safety in the pediatric
field by a study group organized with pediatricians from all over the country.
The following are a summary of the results of the evaluation. Antibacterial
effects: The inhibition of growth was attained for over 90% of strains of K.
pneumoniae, H. influenzae and Salmonella spp. at the concentration of 0.10
micrograms/ml and of strains of S. pneumoniae and E. coli at the concentration of
2.0 micrograms/ml. The CTRX was proved to have excellent antibacterial effects.
Absorption and excretion: Thirty minutes after one shot intravenous
administration with 10, 20, 40 and 50 mg/kg of CTRX, its serum levels were 73,
124, 169 and 190 micrograms/ml, respectively, a clear tendency of dose-response
relationship being noticed. The serum levels decreased only gradually and stayed 
as high as 10 to 20 micrograms/ml even after 12 hours. The half-lives of the drug
were 5.5, 6.3, 6.0 and 4.7 hours for the 4 different dose levels, respectively.
Following the intravenous injection with 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, the urinary
excretion rates were 55, 52 and 54%, respectively. Following the one shot
intravenous administration or by the drip infusion for 30 minutes with about 50
mg/kg, CTRX levels in the cerebrospinal fluid ranged from 1 to 20.3 micrograms/ml
in case of purulent meningitis (5 to 10 micrograms/ml in most cases).CLINICAL
RESULTS: A total of 322 cases was enrolled. The efficacy of CTRX was evaluated in
295 cases out of the 322, excluding drop-outs and the cases which did not meet
the protocols. The clinical efficacy rate was 94% of 191 cases where the
causative bacteria were identified, CTRX being "excellent" in 108 cases and
"effective" in 72. In the remaining 104 cases where the causative bacteria were
not identified, the efficacy rate was 92%, CTRX being "excellent" in 42 cases and
"effective" in 54. Furthermore, the efficacy rate was 89% of 18 cases infected
with more than one kind of bacteria. The drug showed "excellent" or better
effectiveness in 88% of 75 cases which had not responded to other antibiotics.
Bacteriologically, 174 out of 216 strains (93%) which were judged to be causative
bacteria disappeared with the use of CTRX. Eighty-five percent of 53 strains
which had not responded to other antibiotics disappeared by the CTRX
treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3540338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Nihon Naibunpi Gakkai Zasshi. 1986 Jul 20;62(7):776-83.

[Increased activity of sympatho-adrenomedullary system and decreased renal
dopamine receptor content after short-term and long-term sodium loading in rats].

[Article in Japanese]

Shigetomi S, Ueno S, Tosaki H, Kohno H, Hashimoto S, Fukuchi S.

We investigated the effects of short-term and long-term sodium loading on the
sympathoadrenomedullary system and renal dopamine receptor. Male Wistar rats (n =
30) were raised drinking 1% NaCl for four weeks. Urinary norepinephrine and
epinephrine excretion (UNE and UE) were measured before and 1, 2, 4 weeks after
sodium loading by the use of high pressure liquid chromatography with
fluorescence spectrophotometer. Renal plasma membranes were prepared by the
ultracentrifugation method, and maximal binding capacity (Bmax) and dissociation 
constant (Kd) of renal dopamine receptor were determined by Scatchard analysis
using 3-H-spiperone.RESULTS: Sodium loading caused a slight but not significant
decrease of free UNE after 1 and 2 weeks then clear increments of total (free +
conjugated) UNE, free UE and total UE after 4 weeks. Bmax of renal dopamine
receptor did not change after 1 and 2 weeks but significantly decreased after 4
weeks (before: 535.9 fmol/mg X protein, after 4 weeks: 327.2 fmol/mg X protein). 
Kd of renal dopamine receptor slightly elevated 1 week after sodium loading and
then returned to the initial level.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that short-term sodium loading may suppress the
sympathetic activity, but long-term sodium loading may increase the activity of
the sympathoadrenomedullary system with the decrease of renal dopamine receptor
concentration. Increased catecholamines and decreased renal dopamine after
long-term sodium loading may contribute to sodium-dependent hypertension.

PMID: 3781064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Acta Chir Belg. 1986 Jul-Aug;86(4):245-7.

Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a 24-year-old African woman. Unusual
presentation--unknown aetiology.

Sinzobahamvya N, Afriyie K, Shah S, Emsens L, Rankin KC, Mbawa NC.

CASE REPORT: 24-year-old black female presenting with progressive paralysis of
the left lower limb. The clinical examination and investigations describe an
extensive retroperitoneal mass. An exploratory laparotomy reveals a ruptured
saccular infrarenal aortic aneurysm, a narrowing of the distal aorta and a
complete obstruction of the left common iliac artery. The aneurysm was resected, 
an aortoiliac bypass and femorofemoral crossover bypass were performed, with
success. The clinical presentation of this ruptured abdominal aneurysm is
unusual. Its etiology is discussed: the findings are suggestive of Takayasu's
disease.

PMID: 3766024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Am Heart J. 1986 Jul;112(1):14-9.

Discordance between ambulatory monitoring and programmed stimulation in assessing
efficacy of mexiletine in patients with ventricular tachycardia.

Kim SG, Seiden SW, Matos JA, Waspe LE, Fisher JD.

Programmed electrical stimulation (PES) and 24-hour Holter monitoring were
compared in 30 patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular
fibrillation (VF) before and during treatment with mexiletine. Before treatment, 
all patients had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes
(VPCs)/hr and 22 patients had nonsustained VT on Holter. All had inducible
sustained VT by PES (one to three extrastimuli). Mexiletine was effective in only
23% by PES criteria (VT no longer inducible or less than or equal to 15 beats in 
duration and effective in 57%, 57%, and 73% by Holter criteria I, II, and III,
respectively (Holter I greater than or equal to 50% reduction of VPCs, greater
than or equal to 90% reduction of couplets and abolition of nonsustained VT;
Holter II greater than or equal to 83% reduction of VPCs and abolition of VT;
Holter III abolition of VT in patients who had VT during baseline Holter).
Results of PES and Holter were discordant in 67%, 60%, and 55% (PES vs Holter I, 
II, and III, respectively). The majority (greater than or equal to 75%) of the
discordance occurred due to mexiletine appearing effective by Holter criteria but
ineffective by PES criteria (suggesting insensitivity of efficacy by Holter
criteria and/or nonspecificity of induced VT during treatment with
mexiletine).CONCLUSIONS: PES and Holter are discordant in assessing efficacy of
mexiletine (p less than 0.05). Efficacy of mexiletine by Holter criteria is
easier to achieve than efficacy by PES. The discordance between the two methods, 
both with very good reported predictive values, calls for randomized clinical
follow-up studies to determine sensitivity and specificity of each method in
assessing efficacy of mexiletine.

PMID: 3728269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. Int Angiol. 1986 Jul-Sep;5(3):131-5.

Extended femoro-distal bypasses for limb salvage: are they worthwhile?

Doerrler J, Mix C, Maurer PC, Pickl U, Holzman T.

In this report on 93 patients with limb-threatening leg ischemia the surgical
procedures applied were malleolar bypasses (14), sequential bypasses (12) and
femoro-distal bypasses with adjunct AV fistulas (67). The first two methods
resulted in favourable limb-salvage and patency rates. However the results of
such reconstructions essentially depend on the quality of primary and secondary
foot arcades. In peripheral calf and foot arterial occlusions we have applied a
distal arteriovenous fistula as an adjunct measure to maintain bypass patency in 
the crural region. 67 patients were operated on according to this method: 30
females and 37 males with an average age of 70.3 years. 29% had rest-pain and 71%
had gangrene. The majority had already been operated on at least once. 7 patients
had been amputated contralaterally.RESULTS: 79% of the patients had a patent
graft after one month. The incidence of limb salvage was 77%. At two years 47% of
all grafts are still patent and the incidence of limb-salvage is 52%. However,
this operation should be exclusively designed for limb-salvage and for cases with
extremely poor run-off.

PMID: 3559315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Microvasc Res. 1986 Jul;32(1):39-49.

Wick sampling of interstitial fluid in rat skin: further analysis and
modifications of the method.

Kramer GC, Sibley L, Aukland K, Renkin EM.

We compared modifications of the wick technique for analysis of interstitial
fluid in rat subcutis. Nylon wicks were implanted for 60 min in back skin of rats
after anesthesia with pentobarbital or after sacrifice by potassium chloride
injection. Wicks were implanted dry or loaded with saline or varied dilutions of 
rat serum. Implantation of dry wicks and wicks loaded with diluted serum in
living, anesthetized animals produced similar results; the protein concentration 
of wick fluid averaged about 60% that of the plasma protein concentration. The
saline loaded wicks produced wick fluid with a lower protein concentration,
average about 45% that of plasma protein concentration. The lower concentrations 
apparently resulted from simple dilution. Wick fluid sampled from dead animals
had similar total protein concentrations, but in the dead animals there was a
lower concentration of the large plasma proteins and a relatively higher
concentration of the smaller proteins.CONCLUSIONS: Wick implantation in living
animals causes a transitory inflammatory reaction and a decrease in the size
selectivity of macromolecular sieving, but local osmotic forces bring about a
concentration equilibrium with undisturbed interstitium. Implantation of dry
wicks in subcutis either in vivo or post mortem provides a simple, direct method 
for sampling the total protein concentration and colloid osmotic pressure of
interstitial fluid. Implantation of dry wicks postmortem permits measurement of
individual component protein concentrations and evaluation of molecular
selectivity between plasma and interstitium.

PMID: 3736447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Zentralbl Bakteriol Mikrobiol Hyg B. 1986 Jul;182(4):352-9.

[The effect of a weak magnetic alternating field on immunobiologic reactions].

[Article in German]

Stierschneider R, Fischer G.

The influence of a 10 Hz, 0.5 mT (millitesla) alternating magnetic field
(rectangular function) on immunologic parameters was investigated. In four
chambers, each containing 15 mice, the following electroclimatic conditions
existed: conventionally air conditioned laboratory (L), screening of the ambient 
atmospheric electric fields (F), Faradayscreening plus the above mentioned
magnetic field (F + M) and the magnetic field only (M). After 14 days of
acclimatizing without magnetic field influence the mice were exposed to the field
in the chambers F + M and M for 1, 3, 7 and 21 days, respectively. At the end of 
the exposure immunological reactions were examined.METHODS: Plaquetest (hemolysis
in gel) according to Jerne et al. and determination of the hemagglutination
titer. The different groups (L, F, F + M and M) were compared using the Student-t
test or variance analysis.
RESULTS: After 7 days of field exposure the plaquecount and the hemagglutination 
titer (converted into the logarithm of base 2) increased significantly in
comparison to the controls (L and F, respectively) in some experiments. In
experiments carried out with 3 and 21 days of exposure the same tendency
(increase of immunological reaction) was detected.

PMID: 3096017  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Jun 27;111(26):1010-6.

[Tolerance development during a 1-week course of dobutamine treatment].

[Article in German]

Erlemeier HH, Kupper W, Hamm CW, Bleifeld W.

Eleven patients with chronic heart failure (NYHA stage III or IV) were given
dobutamine infusions over 7 days, mean dose 6.2 +/- 2.2 micrograms/kg X min. The 
patients were pretreated with digitalis, diuretics, and vasodilators.
Haemodynamic parameters were measured prior to infusion, 30 minutes and 7 days
thereafter as well as 24 hours after the end of therapy. Before and after the
7-day therapy a two-dimensional echocardiogram was taken. In four patients, the
protocol had to be discontinued prematurely for technical or medical
reasons.RESULTS: Arterial blood pressure, body weight, fractional shortening and 
end-diastolic diameter of the left ventricle were not changed significantly.
Cardiac index rose acutely and returned to initial values after 7 days. Total
peripheral resistance, which was initially significantly reduced, again rose
after infusion over 7 days. Permanent reduction in pulmonary artery wedge
pressure, even one day after the end of therapy, was observed in three patients
showing a left-ventricular end-diastolic wall thickness greater than 7 mm.
However, in patients whose wall thickness was less than 7 mm, there was a rise in
pulmonary artery wedge pressure accompanied by a fall in cardiac index even below
initial values.

PMID: 3720553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1986 Jun;112(2):150-6.

Effects of angiotensin II infusion on the early morning surge of ACTH and
o-CRH-provoked ACTH secretion in normal man.

Haller H, Hensen J, Bähr V, Oelkers W.

The question of whether elevated plasma angiotensin II (AII) levels modulate ACTH
secretion in man still awaits a definite answer. We performed two sets of
experiments pertinent to that problem: Seven healthy young males each received
AII (5 ng/kg/min) and sham infusions on different days in a randomized sequence
from 03.00 h to 06.00 h in the morning, while plasma ACTH and cortisol were
measured every 20 min. Mean blood pressure rose by about 10 mmHg during AII
infusion. Mean plasma ACTH levels were slightly higher with AII than with sham
infusion in every single individual (P less than 0.05). Differences in a pre- and
post-infusion period were significant. Plasma cortisol levels were almost
identical with or without AII infusion. Nine healthy young males received AII (5 
ng/kg/min) or sham infusions on different days from 16.30 h to 20.00 h in a
randomized sequence and a 100 micrograms o-CRH injection at 17.00 h. Plasma ACTH 
and cortisol were measured every 15 or 30 min between 16.30 h and 20.00 h. Mean
blood pressure rose by about 14 mmHg during AII infusion. The rapid increment and
further change in plasma ACTH and cortisol was not significantly different
between the AII and sham infusion studies.CONCLUSIONS: The dose of AII infused
was probably just above the threshold of ACTH stimulation, although AII plasma
levels obtained were probably far above the physiological range. On the adrenal
level, a vasoconstrictor effect of AII may have prevented stimulation of
cortisol. This may be different in states of sodium depletion with reduced
vascular effects of AII.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3017033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Am Heart J. 1986 Jun;111(6):1030-4.

Intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction: experience of community
hospitals served by paramedics.

Hartmann JR, McKeever LM, Bufalino VB, Amirparviz F, Scanlon PJ.

We studied 58 consecutive patients, ages 37 to 78, who were given intravenous
streptokinase (IV STK) early in the course of acute myocardial infarction (AMI)
in three community hospitals served by the same mobile intensive care system.
Forty-four patients (76%) received IV STK within 3 hours and 53 patients (92%)
received it within 4 hours of onset of chest pain. Half the patients were brought
to the hospital by paramedics. The average time from pain to administration of IV
STK for paramedic patients was 100 minutes vs 198 minutes for those brought by
other modes. Fifty of 58 patients (86%) showed clinical evidence of reperfusion. 
Forty-six of 54 patients (85%) studied with coronary angiography an average of 6 
days post infarction had patent vessels subtending the infarcted region of the
myocardium. The average angiographic ejection fraction was 47% for patients with 
reperfused vessels vs 34% for those with occluded vessels. The in-hospital
mortality was 2 of 58 patients (3.4%). There was one late death at 8 months
(total 5.2%). Twenty-one patients eventually had coronary bypass surgery and 5
patients had angioplasty. The remaining 29 patients had conventional therapy
including 6 months of warfarin sodium. Fifty-four of 55 surviving patients (98%) 
are in functional class I or II and none have angina at 2 to 18 months of
follow-up. Fifty-one of 55 patients are back at work.CONCLUSIONS: (1) IV STK is
effective in coronary thrombolysis in a high percentage of AMI patients. (2) IV
STK is safely administered in community hospitals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 3716976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1986 Jun;79(6):919-22.

[Reduced sensitivity to noradrenaline and electric stimulation of the caudal
artery of the aged rat].

[Article in French]

Fouda AK, Atkinson J.

Whilst arterial noradrenaline (NOR) content decreases with age (Waterson, et al. 
1974; Neubauer and Christensen, 1978; Embree, et al., 1981), changes in
vasoconstriction induced by NOR are equivocal (Tuttle, 1966; Cohen and Berkowitz,
1976; Scott and Reid, 1982; Duckles, et al., 1985). We have investigated changes 
in responsiveness to NOR in the NOR-rich rat tail artery. Two cm segments of the 
proximal tail artery from male Ivanos rats of 6/7, 16/17 or 30/31 months were
perfused/superfused with Krebs bicarbonate (4 ml/min). Changes in perfusion
pressure (mmHg) were determined after (1) electrical stimulation (1 to 30 Hz, 0.3
msec, 15 sec at supramaximal voltage, ES) followed by (2) perfusion with
exogenous NOR (1 nM to 10 microM for 2 min at each concentration). Responses to
ES were abolished by pretreatment with reserpine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p. at - 18 h) or
perfusion with phentolamine (4 microM). They were produced therefore, by
liberation of endogenous NOR. Arterial NOR content was determined by HPLC-EC
following perchloric acid digestion (0.1 N).RESULTS: (Table: see text). Asterisks
refer to t-test with 6/7 months age group (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01 and
p less than 0.001]. There were no differences in basal perfusion pressure before 
stimulation or in plateaux responses to maximal concentrations of NOR. In
conclusion our results show a decrease in arterial NOR and in sensitivity to both
endogenous and exogenous NOR with age.

PMID: 3099711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1986 Jun;79(6):796-800.

[Left ventricular hypertrophy of the hypertensive patient: relation to exertional
and ambulatory blood pressure].

[Article in French]

Gosse P, Campello G, Aouizerate E, Roudaut R, Dallocchio M.

In a prospective study the relation of left ventricular hypertrophy and exercise 
versus ambulatory blood pressure was analysed in 31 patients with essential
hypertension (10 females, 21 males, mean age 44 +/- 14). Hypertension is
borderline and has never been treated in 8 patients, mild to moderate in 24
patients who had discontinued therapy at least 8 days prior to the study. M mode 
echocardiogram, bicycle exercise testing and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring
(spacelabs 5200) were performed within a 7 days period. Left ventricular wass
(LVM) was calculated from M. mode echo data according to Devereux's formula and
used to determine a LVM index (LVM/Body surface area). Correlations between LVM
index and rest (R) SBP, end exercise (EE) SBP, the average of approximatively 60 
SBP recordings from 7H to 22H (A-SBP) and the average of the 5 highest (5H) SBP
recordings in the day are reported: (Formula: see text). There is no
significative correlation with diastolic blood pressure.CONCLUSION: 24H A-SBP and
EE-SBP appears to correlate better with severity of LVH than does the R-SBP. The 
selection of the 5 highest SBP in a day do not improve the correlation compared
with R-SBP.

PMID: 2948469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1452. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1986 Jun;7(6):1392-403.

Intracardiac electrode catheter recordings of atrioventricular bypass tracts in
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: techniques, electrophysiologic characteristics
and demonstration of concealed and decremental propagation.

Winters SL, Gomes JA.

Atrioventricular bypass tract deflections were recorded in five patients with the
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome using standard, closely spaced (5 mm) electrode
catheters. Three right paraseptal and two left-sided Kent bundles were recorded
at the level of the tricuspid valve on the His bundle catheter and in the
coronary sinus, respectively. Characteristics of the bypass tracts were studied
during atrial pacing, programmed premature atrial stimulation, induction of
supraventricular tachycardias and programmed ventricular stimulation. During
atrial pacing, as pre-excitation increased, the stimulus to bypass tract
deflection time remained unchanged. In five patients normalization of the QRS
complex coincided with loss of the bypass tract deflection during incremental
atrial pacing. Two patients demonstrated fragmentation of the bypass tract
deflection before block. In one patient fragmentation of the bypass deflection
coincided with normalization of the QRS complex. The effective refractory periods
of the bypass tracts coincided with loss of bypass tract deflections in three of 
the five patients. In one patient, the effective refractory period of the bypass 
tract at its ventricular insertion preceded that at its atrial insertion, whereas
in the remaining patient, the effective refractory period of the bypass tract was
not attained because of atrial refractoriness. During orthodromic
supraventricular tachycardia, the bypass tract deflections disappeared in the
anterograde limb in all patients. In one patient, the bypass tract deflection was
recorded during atrial fibrillation with pre-excitation.IN CONCLUSION: Bypass
tract deflections can be recorded with a closely spaced electrode catheter. Right
paraseptal bypass tracts are located close to the His bundle. The anterograde
effective refractory period of the bypass tract usually reflects its atrial
insertion, but concealment through the bypass tract can occur with block at the
ventricular insertion. Decremental conduction within the bypass tract can occur
before block, suggesting concealed and overt Wenckebach block within the bypass
tract. Recordings of bypass tract deflections increase the potential of closed
chest ablation of right paraseptal and left-sided bypass tracts.

PMID: 3711497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1986 Jun;60(6):611-22.

[Stress test and anatomical study of the lateral collateral ligaments of the
ankle].

[Article in Japanese]

Shibata Y, Nishi G, Masegi A, Sekiya I.

Many authors have discussed on the instability of the ankle joint. We have
therefore investigated the variety, courses and the functions of the lateral
collateral ligament by dissecting 16 freshly amputated limbs. It was composed of 
4 ligaments, i.e., the anterior talofibular, the posterior talofibular, the
calcaneofibular and the lateral talocalcaneal ligaments. These ligaments have
various courses and influence the stability of the ankle joint in various
manners. Transection of the anterior talofibular ligament alone caused inversion 
and forward instability, and transection of calcaneofibular ligament alone caused
adduction instability of the ankle and subtalar joint, but posterior talofibular 
and the lateral talocalcaneal ligament and other ligaments, however, played an
important role in the stability of the ankle joint, so that injuries of the
anterior talofibular ligament or the calcaneofibular ligament caused varying
degrees of instability in this joint.CONCLUSION: To evaluate this injury the
following methods of taking X-ray pictures are indispensable, namely, stress
inversion, stress anterior drawer, and stress adduction radiography.

PMID: 3746052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1986 May 15;136(9):209-12.

[Campylobacter-like bacteria (C. pylori) in the healthy stomach?].

[Article in German]

Mueller RL, Hagel HJ, Geymeier G, Domschke W.

Some authors recently published reports on the findings of unidentified S-shaped 
spiral bacteria, so called "Campylobacter pylori", in the gastric epithelium and 
the significant connection between these strains and gastric diseases. 24 fasting
gastric juice samples of young healthy volunteers were now analysed
bacteriologically using the campylobacter isolation techniques.RESULTS: It was
not possible to find the so called "C. pylori" in the healthy stomach.

PMID: 3526729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1986 May;13(5):1893-6.

[Study of chemotherapy in the field of internal medicine--clinical experience
with SF-SP].

[Article in Japanese]

Irie K, Yasutake K, Imamura Y, Yoshimura Y, Nakamura T, Yoshida M, Fujisawa T,
Nishimura S, Mizogami H, Sawada Y, et al.

An SF-SP Tegafur spansule preparation was administered to 26 patients with
advanced cancer (24 evaluable), and the clinical effectiveness and toxicity were 
studied. In most of cases, daily dosages of 800 mg were administered in two
parts, in a few cases, daily dosages of 1,000 mg or 1,200 mg were given. Clinical
effectiveness: The evaluation of effectiveness was based on the Koyama-Saito
group criteria. Of the 24 evaluable cases, PR was observed in 3 cases of gastric 
cancer, one of colon cancer, and one of liver cancer, a total of 5 cases (20.8%).
In these 5 cases the daily dosage was 800 mg, and the median duration of PR was
51 days.TOXICITY: TOXICITY was observed in 3 (11.5%) of the 26 cases.

PMID: 3085595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. Hinyokika Kiyo. 1986 May;32(5):697-711.

[Recurrence of acute uncomplicated cystitis--criteria for the evaluation of
recurrence after antimicrobial chemotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Arakawa S, Kamidono S, Ishigami J, Kawamura N, Ohkoshi M, Ban Y, Nishiura T,
Kumamoto Y, Kishi H, Kawada Y, et al.

The recurrence of female acute uncomplicated cystitis was investigated
clinically. The criteria for the evaluation of recurrences were proposed, as
follows;PATIENTS: Target infection is acute uncomplicated cystitis (AUC) which
had satisfied the specifications of AUC Criteria by the UTI Committee of Japan
and showed the excellent effects of an antimicrobial agent after a definite
period of administration. Treatment period: Seven days; after 3 days'
administration to evaluate the drug efficacy, patients shall take an additional 4
days' treatment. Interval of follow up proposed was 7 days. Evaluation of
recurrence: Parameters of criteria are pyuria and bacteriuria. Recurrence: Pyuria
greater than or equal to 10 WBCs/hpf and bacteriuria greater than or equal to
10(4)/ml. Evaluation of the day of recurrence: Evaluation should be made 14 days 
after the start of treatment. Urine sampling: After 7 days of treatment,
midstream urine is collected and in cases with positive findings, catheterized
urine should then be collected. Using these criteria it will be possible to
evaluate and compare the ability of various antimicrobial agents to cure acute
uncomplicated cystitis.

PMID: 3751797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. Klin Padiatr. 1986 May-Jun;198(3):137-46.

[Combined treatment strategy in over 200 children with Hodgkin's disease:
graduated chemotherapy, involved field irradiation with low dosage and selective 
splenectomy. A report of the cooperative therapy study DAL-HD-82].

[Article in German]

Schellong G, Brämswig J, Ludwig R, Gerein V, Jobke A, Jürgens H, Kabisch H,
Stollmann B, Weinel P, Gadner H, et al.

It was the aim of the cooperative therapy study HD-82 for children with Hodgkin's
disease to reduce chemo- and radiotherapy and to investigate of a strategy for
selective splenectomy previously developed in the Hodgkin study HD-78. Between
December 1981 and December 1984 207 patients (131 boys and 76 girls) below 16
years of age were enrolled in this study. In 174 out of 207 patients (84.1%) the 
criteria for selective splenectomy were applied i.e. the spleen was only removed 
when the splenic surface was nodular or when the lymphnodes at the splenic hilus 
and/or the pancreatic tail were enlarged. 69 out of 174 patients (39.7%) had a
splenectomy. 50 of the removed 69 spleens (72%) showed histological evidence of
Hodgkin's disease. These results were comparable to the 36% and 73% predicted
from the retrospective analysis in the HD-78 study. According to the stage of
Hodgkin's disease three different treatment groups with 2, 4 and 6 cycles of
OPPA/COPP were formed (stage I/IIA, IIB/IIIA and IIIB/IV). Radiation therapy was 
given as involved field irradiation with a total dose of 35, 30 and 25 Gy
depending on the extent of the chemotherapy. 203 patients were treated according 
to the protocol. Until the 30th of November 1985 3 patients died from
intercurrent disease during a follow-up period of 11 to 47 months (median 29
months). 5 patients relapsed. The probability for disease-free survival after 3
1/2 years is 96% for the total group and 99%, 96% and 87% for the three treatment
groups including 100, 53 and 50 patients in each group respectively.CONCLUSIONS: 
1. The OPPA/COPP chemotherapy eliminates reliably occult microfoci. 2. The
radiation doses in combination with the chemotherapy are sufficient to prevent
local recurrences. 3. The decisional model for selective splenectomy has proved
to be extremely valuable prospectively.

PMID: 3523020  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1986 May;134(5):253-6.

[Glucose tolerance in intensive care premature infants with a birth weight below 
1,500 g in the first 5 days].

[Article in German]

Zobel G, Müller WD, Pürstner P.

Plasma insulin and blood glucose values were studied in 11 stressed premature
infants with birth weight below 1 500 g during the first five days after birth
under increasing fluid and glucose infusion rates. The group 11 small premature
neonates was subdivided; group A consisted of 6 stressed premature infants with
respiratory distress syndrome (RDS stage III-IV) and/or intraventricular
haemorrhage (IVH stage III-IV), and group B of 5 slightly stressed premature
infants with RDS (stage I-II and/or IVH (stage I-II). During the first two days
there was no difference in caloric and fluid intake in both groups. From the
third day on caloric intake was much higher in group B than in group A (day 5:
group A: 61.33 +/- 13.01 kcal/kg BW; group B: 78.2 +/- 18.49 kcal/kg BW). Plasma 
insulin values increased in both groups during the first five days after birth
(group A: day 1: mean plasma insulin values 8.18 +/- 7.59 microU/ml; day 4: 27.22
+/- 32.85 microU/ml; group B: day 1: mean plasma insulin values 4.34 +/- 2.62;
day 4: 11.18 +/- 8.38). Blood glucose and plasma insulin values were
significantly higher in group A than in group B.CONCLUSION: Impaired glucose
utilisation in severely stressed premature infants with parenteral nutrition
might be due to stress induced peripheral insulin resistance.

PMID: 3088434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Neuroscience. 1986 May;18(1):151-66.

Neuropeptide Y--a cotransmitter with noradrenaline and adenosine 5'-triphosphate 
in the sympathetic nerves of the mouse vas deferens? A biochemical, physiological
and electropharmacological study.

Stjärne L, Lundberg JM, Astrand P.

A combination of biochemical, physiological and electropharmacological methods
was employed to examine the occurrence of neuropeptide Y and the pre- and
postjunctional effects of this peptide on sympathetic neuromuscular transmission 
in the mouse vas deferens. This tissue had a high content of neuropeptide Y-like 
immunoreactive material, suggesting a dense innervation by neuropeptide
Y-containing nerve fibres. Addition of neuropeptide Y at concentrations from 5 X 
10(-9) to 5 X 10(-7) M induced both pre- and postjunctional effects in vitro.
Neuropeptide Y per se induced a rise in the resting tension, and "instantly"
potentiated the contractile effects of exogenous noradrenaline and of the stable 
adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) analogue, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Neuropeptide 
Y reduced the secretion of [3H]noradrenaline evoked by electrical nerve
stimulation, and selectively depressed the stimulus-evoked, but not the
spontaneously occurring excitatory junction potentials in smooth muscle cells.
Further, neuropeptide Y reduced the amplitudes of the twitch contractions evoked 
by electrical field stimulation with short stimulus trains at 10 Hz, and also
(although to a smaller extent) the delayed contractile response to longer trains 
of nerve stimuli. The pre- and postjunctional effects of neuropeptide Y were not 
changed by alpha- or beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents, or by tachyphylaxis to
the effects of ATP, or by the calcium channel blocker nifedipine.IN CONCLUSION:
sympathetic neuromuscular transmission in the mouse vas deferens may be mediated 
not only by noradrenaline and ATP, but also by neuropeptide Y.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3755512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Pediatr Med Chir. 1986 May-Jun;8(3):359-62.

[Nasal conduction and ventilation: study of 30 children with food allergy before 
and after adenoidectomy].

[Article in Italian]

de Vita R, De Luca L, Berni Canani M.

Observed the results of an investigation on the trouble of breathing in 1350
children, looked at the trouble's frequence (450 positive and 400 dubious), the
Authors studied the obstruction of the high and peripheral, air-ways and the
associated auditive troubles in relation with aerial allergens and foods
allergens.METHODS: For the diagnosis of food's allergens: broncho-stimulation
test by foods; rhinomanometry with Broms' formula, spirometry and Rresp exam,
audiometric and impedentiometric exam.
RESULTS: About 30 children with air-ways obstruction and positive at the
bronchostimulation test to food's allergens 7 were Prick and Rast positive to
aeroallergens'; 12 showed total obstruction of nasal pipes and audiometric and
impedentiometric troubles, 15 obstruction of one only nasal pipe, 3 absence of
obstruction. At the spirometric check and of Rresp in the 63.3% of children was
associated obstruction of peripheral air-ways and in the 26.6% laryngeal
obstruction. The only nasal obstruction was present in 10% of children, in the
48% was associated to conjunctivitis. In 12 children with audiometric and
impedentiometric damage who were adenoidectomized two months after the surgical
intervention the nasal condition showed evident improvement but in 5 children
after one year the nasal obstruction showed itself again. The food allergens
exclusion caused disappearance of nasal, laryngeal and peripheral obstructive
syndrome and normalization of audiometric and impedentiometric values in the
adenoidectomized subjects and in 95% of staying children.

PMID: 3786198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 1986 May;8(3):196-8.

[Clinical observation on the changes in plasma cyclic nucleotides in patients
with leukemia before and after treatment and their relation to cell-mediated
immunity].

[Article in Chinese]

Han ZC, Lu LH, Zhang XM, Chen ZZ.

Level of plasma cyclic nucleotides was determined in 47 normal subjects and 63
patients with leukemia. Follow-up was carried out in 20 of these patients. The
relation between the level of cyclic nucleotides and cell-mediated immunity was
studied.THE RESULTS: There was no significant difference in cyclic adenosine
monophosphate (cAMP) between the normal subjects and leukemic patients, whereas
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) level was markedly elevated and cAMP/cGMP
ratio was obviously reduced in the untreated and unrelieved patients. There was
no significant difference in the various types of leukemia. In patients with
complete remission (CR) after treatment, their cyclic nucleotides were similar to
those in normal subjects, but they remained abnormal in patients without clinical
remission after treatment. In CR patients treated regularly for half a year, the 
cGMP level when first diagnosed was lower than that of patients who died soon or 
were unrelieved. Plasma cGMP level was negatively correlated to E-rosette forming
cell (E-RFC) and cAMP/cGMP ratio was positively correlated to E-RFC. These
results suggest that the plasma cGMP be used as additional parameter to monitor
the treatment response and prognosis. Reduced E-RFC in leukemia may be related to
the elevated cGMP and/or lowered cAMP/cGMP ratio.

PMID: 3017662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1986 Apr 5;116(14):431-40.

[Prospective evaluation of coagglutination and latex agglutination in the
diagnosis of bacterial meningitis in childhood].

[Article in German]

Kobelt R, Schaad UB.

Two simple and low-priced kits to detect bacterial antigens in cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) specimens from patients with suspected meningitis have recently
become available. Methods employed by these kits are staphylococcal
coagglutination (COA) and latex agglutination (LA). The COA "Phadebact CSF-kit"
(Pharmacia) detects Haemophilus influenzae type b (HIb), Neisseria meningitidis
(NM) groups A, B, C, Y and W 135 and Streptococcus pneumoniae (SP), whereas the
LA "Slidex Méningite-kit" (BioMérieux) includes HIb, NM A, NM C and SP. These two
diagnostic tests were compared with the standard methods for analyzing CSF
specimens from children with suspected meningitis. A total of 336 CSF specimens
were tested. Forty-three were from children with bacterial meningitis due to HIb,
NM or SP obtained before antimicrobial therapy. Thirty-four of them (79%) were
correctly detected by COA, 23 (54%) by LA, and 42 (97%) by microscopic analysis
of stained smears. There were 65 CSF samples of such meningitis cases obtained
after initiation of antimicrobial therapy: COA detected 26 (40%), LA 17 (26%) and
staining 26 (40%). With culture-positive CSF specimens from patients before
therapy, the best sensitivities were obtained with LA for SP (100%) and COA for
HIb (87%), whereas the results for NM antigen detection were only 43% with COA
and 0% with LA (no reagent against NM B). Cross-reactions with other bacterial
antigens were frequent with COA (26%) and rare with LA (2%), resulting in
false-positive findings in 6 of the 66 positive tests with COA (9%) but in none
of the 40 positive tests with LA (0%). One of the 48 specimens from aseptic
meningitis cases was false-positive for HIb by COA, whereas all 172 normal
specimens were negative with both methods. With 5 culture-negative CSF specimens 
from patients with unequivocal purulent meningitis COA detected bacterial antigen
in 5 and LA in 2.CONCLUSIONS: The two kits evaluated cannot replace standard
methods for analyzing CSF specimens, in view of insufficient sensitivity (mainly 
LA) or frequent cross-reactions and false-positive values (COA). However, due to 
their simplicity, rapidity, and possible identification of bacterial pathogens
after initiation of antimicrobial therapy, these kits are recommended as an
useful addition to standard methods.

PMID: 3961459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Apr 4;111(14):539-43.

[Acute coronary angiography in therapy-refractory angina pectoris].

[Article in German]

Tebbe U, Sauer G, Kreuzer H, Vogt A, Bethge KP, Wiegand V, Neuhaus KL.

Emergency coronary angiography was performed in 188 patients with
treatment-resistant unstable angina. Criteria analysed were: duration of angina
less than 72 h; angina despite heparin and nitroglycerin infusion; no significant
S-T segment elevation in the ECG; creatine-kinase rise up to 150 U/l. Coronary
heart disease (CHD) was found in 130 patients (group A). In 47 of them a recent
coronary occlusion was demonstrated angiographically (main stem: 1; anterior
interventricular branch: 8; circumflex branch: 27; right coronary artery: 11
patients). An at least 90% occlusion of one coronary artery was found in 58
patients. A 75% stenosis of several vessels was found in 25 patients making it
impossible to identify the vessel that had caused the angina. A bypass operation 
was performed in 62 patients within two weeks. During the acute coronary
angiography, intracoronary streptokinase infusion was performed in 11 (success
rate 55%), percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 26 (success rate
88%). In 58 patients (group B) CHD was excluded. The final diagnosis in these
was: mitral valve prolapse (31); pericarditis (6), dilated cardiomyopathy (3);
coronary anomaly (3); muscle bridge in the anterior interventricular branch (2): 
normal (13).CONCLUSION: It is not possible to decide with certainty, in the
absence of typical infarction signs in the ECG and clinically, whether
treatment-resistant angina is due to CHD or other causes. Acute coronary
angiography is indicated in such cases, because even without S-T segment
elevation an acute coronary occlusion is present in 25%, and in 50% of cases an
acute therapeutic intervention is indicated.

PMID: 3082612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Apr 4;111(14):544-7.

[Reinfarction after initially successful thrombolysis in acute myocardial
infarct].

[Article in German]

Schwarz F, Eichhorn J, Schuler G, Manthey J, Kübler W.

In 24 of 77 patients (31%, group A), successfully treated by intracoronary
streptokinase infusion in the acute stage of a transmural myocardial infarction, 
reocclusion of the infarct artery occurred within four weeks, in 15 patients
with, in the remaining nine without re-infarction symptoms. The age of the
patients, frequency of single, double or triple-vessel disease, number of
anterior and posterior wall infarcts, creatine-kinase activity before and during 
treatment, and degree of stenosis at first contrast-medium injection were all
comparable in the patients with or without re-occlusion (53 patients, group B).
At the end of the acute treatment, in five patients of group A (21%) and in 17 of
group B (32%) combined with balloon dilatation at the same time as the infusion, 
residual stenosis was significantly higher in group A than group B (75%) and 62%,
respectively; P less than 0.001). No patient with a residual stenosis of less
than 50% (18, of whom 12 had balloon dilatation) had a re-occlusion.CONCLUSION: A
residual stenosis of at least 50% after initially successful thrombolysis
presents a marked re-infarction risk and should lead to a second intervention in 
such cases.

PMID: 2937626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Eur J Pediatr. 1986 Apr;145(1-2):73-6.

Overnight metabolic profiles in very young insulin-dependent diabetic children.

de Beaufort CE, Bruining GJ, Home PD, Houtzagers CM, van Strik R.

The magnitude of the disturbance of metabolic control in diabetes mellitus in
very young children has been recognised, but seldom studied. Limitations to
studies are set by the difficulty of obtaining control data and until recently
the lack of alternative therapies. Recently "mini" pumps for continuous
subcutaneous insulin delivery have become available and may offer an alternative 
therapeutic possibility. The present investigation has been undertaken to collect
overnight metabolic data of very young diabetic children (less than 6 years)
controlled by standard injection therapy. During one admission to hospital
frequent blood samples were collected for free insulin, glucose, alanine,
lactate, glycerol and 3-hydroxybutyrate determinations. In all children (n = 9)
the profiles showed a steep rise in glucose from 04.30 h (6.2 +/- 1.3 mmol/l) to 
09.30 h (17.8 +/- 2.4 mmol/l) (the so-called "dawn-phenomenon"). The nature of
the changes in the intermediary metabolites suggested that rise in blood glucose 
was caused by insufficient insulin. We have attempted to explore the time
relationship between the overnight drop in free insulin levels and the rises in
blood glucose by a distribution-free statistical analysis, correlating successive
changes in time between the two profiles. The analysis suggested a delay of 2-6 h
between free insulin levels and their effects.IN CONCLUSION: a clear "dawn
phenomenon" is seen in very young diabetic children, and contributes to their
poor glycaemic control. More stable and higher insulin concentrations in the
early morning, obtained perhaps by continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion,
might ameliorate the overall glycaemic control in the very young diabetic child.

PMID: 3525178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1986 Apr;13(4 Pt 2):1506-13.

[Radiation-induced secondary cancer in patients with uterine carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Arai T, Fukuhisa K, Takeda E, Murata M, Kasamatsu T, Tsunematsu R, Masubuchi K,
Fukuda T, Noguchi H, Chihara T, et al.

PURPOSE: Radiation-induced cancer has been epidemiologically investigated in
occupational or atomic radiation exposure cases. These is also a need to clarify 
the risk in the case of radiotherapeutical exposure. In this study, therefore,
cases of post-irradiated uterine carcinoma which was well cured and followed up
over a long term were selected for statistical analysis of radiation-induced
cancer in the medical division.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 19,384 patients with uterine carcinoma at seven
institutions in Japan were registered on a computer system at the NIRS and were
statistically analyzed. Of these, 6,655 patients were treated by surgical
procedure alone, 4,310 were given a combined treatment modality of radiation and 
surgery, 8,419 were treated by radiation alone between 1960 and 1978.
Radiation-induced cancer was defined according to the following categories:
Secondary cancer was developed within the irradiated field. Time interval was
over 5 years after the initial irradiation (leukemia was over 2 years). The
cancer had a different histological type to the original one. A total of 43
patients with induced cancer were observed, namely: 14 with rectal cancer, 8 with
leukemia, 6 with uterine corpus cancer, 4 with urinary bladder cancer, 3 with
osteosarcoma or uterine sarcoma, 2 with sigmoid colon cancer or malignant fibrous
histiocytoma, and 1 with ovarian cancer, respectively.
RESULTS: Rectal cancer, leukemia and urinary bladder cancer were initially
analyzed, because their expected values were easily estimated from the basic
data. A total of 8,333 patients (43,418 person-years) from 7 institutions were
considered. Their average follow-up period was 10.2 years after treatment. 1)
Rectal cancer: Observed value (O) = 14, expected value (E) = 7.83, O/E = 1.79,
95% confidence interval of O/E ratio (CI) = 0.98-2.99, there was no significant
difference. 2) Leukemia: O = 8, E = 3.78, O/E = 2.12, CI = 0.91-4.18, no
significant difference. 3) Urinary bladder cancer: O = 4, E = 2.23, O/E = 1.79,
CI = 0.49-4.55, no significant difference. In other words, no significant
difference was observed in the risk of occurrence of secondary cancer among the
total number of irradiated patients from the 7 institutions. Since these results,
however, were influenced by the accuracy of patient follow-up, the O/E ratio of
double cancer in each institution was observed to check the accuracy of the
follow-up and 3 institutions were selected for further analysis comprising 2,686 
patients (13,588 person-years) in all. Their average follow-up period was 10.1
years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3089172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1467. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1986 Apr;13(4 Pt 2):1642-6.

[Role of hepatic resection in multiple combination therapy of hepatocellular
carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka J, Tobe T.

Recently, resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HC-C) has been increasing.
However, it has not been established whether or not hepatectomy is beneficial in 
achieving long survival in HCC patients. The present study was aimed at
evaluating whether hepatic resection could lead to long survival by
retrospectively analyzing cumulative survival rate. One hundred twenty-three
cases underwent hepatic resection for HCC between 1977 and 1985. Their
post-operative cumulative survival rates including operative death were 65, 34
and 27% for 1, 3 and 5 years, respectively. The 3-year survival rates for stages 
1, 2, 3 and 4 were 55, 48, 27 and 0%, respectively. When the survival rate was
analyzed by curability, the 3-year survival rates were 68 and 28% for curative
and non-curative operations. In our department, 18 cases have survived over 3
years after hepatectomy. The macroscopical appearance of their tumors was
characterized by encapsulation, with no tumor thrombosis in the portal vein.
Tumor size or satellite lesions did not necessarily affect long
survival.CONCLUSIONS: Liver resection for hepatoma patients at stage I and II can
be expected to bring about long-term survival.

PMID: 3015039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1986 Apr;91(4):511-7.

Reoperation for failed antireflux operations.

Little AG, Ferguson MK, Skinner DB.

Experience with gastroesophageal reflux in patients without prior operations has 
yielded understanding of pathophysiology, surgical techniques, and results. Less 
is known about patients with failed antireflux operations. This report of 61
patients undergoing repeat antireflux procedures addresses this issues. Not
included are patients with gastroesophageal reflux after ulcer operations or with
inappropriate antireflux operations for motility disorders. Group A patients (n =
34) had only one previous operation, Group B (n = 19) had two, and Group C (n =
8) had three or more. Group C had significantly (p less than 0.05) more dysphagia
and less heartburn than Group A. This observation correlated with findings from
manometry, pH testing, and endoscopy, which showed progressively worse esophageal
body function and a greater incidence of severe esophagitis and esophageal leak, 
but less gastroesophageal reflux, in Group C than B and in Group B compared to A.
Operative mortality was 4.9%. Repeat antireflux operations in the 58 survivors
were as follows: Group A included 25 standard antireflux procedures and seven
bowel interpositions, and 75% were transthoracic. Group B included 16 antireflux 
procedures and one bowel interposition, and 82% were transthoracic. Group C
included four antireflux procedures and three interpositions, and all were
transthoracic. Clinical results were excellent or good in 85% in Group A, 66% in 
Group B, and only 42% in Group C (A versus C, p less than 0.05). Surgical
complications increased from 27% in Group A to 75% in Group C (p less than
0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with one prior operation and recurrent
gastroesophageal reflux are similar to patients with no prior operations. Results
of repeat antireflux operations deteriorate with increasing operations because of
impaired esophageal function and progressive tissue destruction. Therefore,
second reoperations must be definitive and resection and reconstruction with
healthy tissue considered. A transthoracic approach is preferable for first
reoperations and mandatory after multiple antireflux procedures.

PMID: 3959569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Z Kardiol. 1986 Apr;75(4):211-4.

[Analysis of the accuracy of the Holter system ICR 6201-G3].

[Article in German]

Schmidt G, Goedel-Meinen L, Weixel G, Jahns G, Ulm K.

The accuracy of the Holter System ICR 6201-G3 was investigated by evaluation of
32 Holter recordings taken randomly from the hospital's ECG laboratory. All
events were classified into true positive, false positive and false negative
diagnoses. Sensitivity (S) and predictive accuracy (PA) were calculated.RESULTS: 
QRS complexes: S 99.9%, PA 99.9%; supraventricular premature beats: S 98.3%, PA
81.1%; single ventricular premature beats: S 96.8%, PA 97.4%; ventricular
couplets: S 96.4%, PA 95.6%; ventricular salvos: S 98.6%, PA 90.8%; pauses: S
100%, PA 91.7%. It is concluded that despite a relatively good overall accuracy
of automatic arrhythmia detection, on account of the lower accuracy in the
evaluation of all clinically important arrhythmias and of the markedly worse
accuracy in some instances, a fully automatic use of the system cannot be
recommended. Repetitive ventricular arrhythmias and asystolies must be controlled
by hand.

PMID: 3727660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. J UOEH. 1986 Mar 20;8 Suppl:135-49.

[The influence of infrasound upon human body].

[Article in Japanese]

Okamoto K, Yoshida A, Inoue J, Takyu H.

The authors reported the results of an experiment which used an infrasound
generator with a loudspeaker attached.METHOD: Hearing threshold, body sway,
respiration, pulse, blood pressure, ECG, ENG, GSR and OKN were evaluated with
three different stimulations: whole body exposure, exposure by head phone and
whole body exposure with ear plug.
RESULTS: The hearing threshold showed no significant difference between whole
body exposure and exposure by head phone, while it was significantly raised with 
whole body exposure with ear plug. Body sway was more prominent with stimulation 
at 15 Hz than at 10 Hz and individual variability was more marked at 15 Hz.
Respiration, pulse, blood pressure, ECG, ENG, GSR and OKN showed no remarkable
change. No nystagmus was seen any at exposure.

PMID: 3726296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1986 Mar-Apr;56(2):147-55.

[Complications of the use of the pulmonary flotation catheter in surgery.
Prospective study].

[Article in Spanish]

Blanco Pajón MJ, Fernández de la Reguera G, Hurtado Reyes IC, Molina Méndez J,
Blackaller Palacios R, Luna Ortíz P.

We studied 120 insertions of the Swan-Ganz catheter in 119 patients who needed
hemodynamic monitorization for cardiovascular surgery. All catheter insertions
were carried out soon after the anesthetic induction employing the modified
Seldinger technique through the internal jugular vein, taking as reference the
intracavitary pressure waves to get the pulmonary artery wedge position. The time
of insertion, time of use, complications of puncture, difficulty and
complications of insertion, thoracic and pulmonary complications, and loop or
knot in the catheter were examined.RESULTS: multiple punctures in 15 cases
(12.5%), 8 carotid artery punctures (6.6%), 14 hematomas (11.6%), difficulty for 
pass through the right ventricle in 8 cases (6.6%) and pulmonary artery in 32
(26.6%) impossibility to get the pulmonary wedge position in 13 cases (10.8%),
loop of catheter in 3 (2.5%), ectopic atrial beats in 30 cases (25%), atrial
tachycardia in 4 (3.3%), ectopic ventricular beats in 73 (60.8%). General
arrhythmia incidence was 67.5%, none serious. All complications were minor and
not life-threatening. Only in two cases (1.6%) the complications were major, both
pulmonary infarction, but were life-threatening to patients; in 20 patients
(16.6%) the outcome was without complications. There were no deaths for the
catheter use. The results of this study showed that complications caused by the
pulmonary artery flotation catheter were smaller than the benefit obtained in the
management of these patients.

PMID: 2942125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi. 1986 Mar;61(2):298-302.

[Effects of the intravenous injection of an ionic contrast medium on the
circulating plasma volume: an assessment with plasma colloid oncotic pressure].

[Article in Japanese]

Sakuma I, Hashimoto F, Kakinoki S, Anzai T, Yasuda H.

We investigated effects of intravenous injection of ionic contrast medium (ICM)
on circulating plasma volume (CPV) by measurements of changes in plasma colloid
oncotic pressure (COP).METHOD: ICM (60% meglumine iothalamate 30 ml) was injected
intravenously as a bolus into 7 healthy male volunteers. The venous blood samples
were drawn before, and 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10 minutes after the injection. Relatively 
massive doses of the ICM (150-180 ml) were infused intravenously into 6 male
cardiac patients with normal cardiac and renal function during ECG gated cardiac 
X-ray computed tomography. The blood samples were drawn before, soon after and an
hour after the infusion. The plasma COP values of the blood samples were measured
with a needle-type osmometer and the sequences of CPV were estimated from the
changes of COP values.
RESULTS: The bolus injection of the ICM increased the CPV by 10%, 8-9 ml of the
CPV per 1 ml of the ICM, and the increase continued during the study (at least
for 10 minutes). The massive infusion of the ICM resulted in about 20% increase
of the CVP soon after the infusion, and then induced a diuletic effect. The CVP
returned to the basal level in one hour, but some patients became rather
dehydrated.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggested that an intravenous injection of ICM
produced considerable expansion of CPV and subsequent dehydration. Careful
considerations would be necessary when patients with impaired cardiac or renal
function are treated with intravenous ICM during X-ray computed tomography or
digital subtraction angiography.

PMID: 3721400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1473. J Surg Res. 1986 Mar;40(3):210-5.

The fluosol-perfused isolated canine pancreas: a model for the study of blood
component effects in acute pancreatitis.

O'Malley VP, Keyes DM, Postier RG.

Blood components have been implicated as factors which modulate organ injury in
acute pancreatitis. To isolate these effects we compared a standardized isolated,
blood-perfused, canine pancreas model as described by Herman-Taylor and modified 
by Cameron with a model using fluosol, a fluorocarbon, as the perfusate.
Pancreatitis was induced using partial pancreatic duct obstruction with secretin 
induced hypersecretion. Twenty-four dogs were randomized into four groups; (1)
blood-perfused control (BPC), (2) fluosol-perfused control (FPC), (3)
blood-perfused injury (BPI), (4) fluosol-perfused injury (FPI). All glands were
observed for 4 h for mean arterial pressure (MAP), weight gain, gross appearance,
and venous amylase. Stability was monitored with blood gases and glucose.
Specimens were taken at 4 h for light and electron microscopy.RESULTS: BPI preps 
had a significantly higher vascular resistance at 3 and 4 h compared to FPI preps
(3.85 vs 3.26 PRU and 4.8 vs 3.9 PRU, respectively) (P less than 0.002). Edema
formation (3+ vs 1+) and venous amylase (18,543 vs 1961) (P less than 0.001) were
greater in BPI than FPI preps. Light and electron microscopy confirmed injury but
could not quantify it between injury groups.
SUMMARY: Hypersecretion and partial ductal obstruction causes a more severe
injury in the blood than the fluosol perfused preparation. Changes in the
peripheral resistance seen in the blood perfused model lend support to the theory
that the primary injury in this model is at the capillary level and is modulated 
by a blood component.

PMID: 2419668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. Microb Ecol. 1986 Mar;12(1):101-10. doi: 10.1007/BF02153225.

Microbial-invertebrate interactions and potential for biotechnology.

Bonar DB(1), Weiner RM, Colwell RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Maryland, 20742, College Park, Maryland,
USA.

CONCLUSION: As the interactions between marine invertebrates and their bacterial 
commensals and symbionts are better understood, the application of biotechnology 
will enhance both environmental and economic benefit. In the immediate future,
marine bacteria, either selected or genetically engineered, will play a
significant role in enhancing the development of selected invertebrates in
aquaculture and in the field. Luck may also favor discovery of mechanisms to
suppress the development of biofouling species, perhaps by making it possible to 
coat submerged surfaces with bacterial films designed to repell larvae and/or
interfere with larval morphogenesis. In any case, the future is appealing.

PMID: 24212460  [PubMed]


1475. No Shinkei Geka. 1986 Mar;14(3 Suppl):411-6.

[Cerebellar astrocytoma presenting with cerebellar hemorrhage: a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Harada K, Hayashi T, Okamoto Y, Shojima K, Utsunomiya H, Maehara F, Sato Y.

A rare case of cerebellar astrocytoma presenting with cerebellar hemorrhage is
reported. On reviewing the literature, we could collect only four other cases of 
spontaneous hemorrhage in cerebellar astrocytomas.CASE: On April 5, 1984, a
15-year-old boy noted a sudden onset of headache, vomiting and vertigo and became
lethargic and confused. He was admitted on the next day. General examinations,
including bloodpressure, temperature and laboratory tests, were found to be
normal upon admission. The patient was in somnolence with nystagmus and left
dysdiadochokinesis. The result of the left nose to finger test was poor.
Computerized tomography revealed a mass leison with calcification and hemorrhage 
in the paramedian part of the cerebellum. Fourty days after admission,
suboccipital osteoplastic craniotomy was performed. A hematoma was found in the
paramedian part of the cerebellum. A tumor mass with rich vascularity was
completely removed together with the hematoma. Histologically this tissue was a
low grade fibrillary astrocytoma accompanying calcification and hemosiderin
suggesting tumoral hemorrhage. He regained his neurological functions
satisfactorily and was discharged 2 months later.

PMID: 3703143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. No To Shinkei. 1986 Mar;38(3):247-52.

[Change of plasma volume on patients treated by induced hypertension therapy for 
vasospasm].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishiguro S, Kimura A, Munemoto S, Kitabayashi M, Shoin K.

Plasma volume, central venous pressure and water balance of 24 patients were
measured about 1st and 2nd week after early operation for the ruptured aneurysms.
All of the patients had been treated by induced hypertension therapy for delayed 
vasospasm successfully. Plasma volume was measured by RI method using RISA. The
average of plasma volume of 16 patients was 58.3 +/- 6.0 ml/kg. This group had
200 ml of 25% albumin every day. It was 48.2 +/- 6.2 ml/kg on 8 patients without 
albumin. The average of CVP was 11.3 +/- 2.2 cm on the albumin group. It was 5.3 
+/- 1.5 cm on the other group. The value of plasma volume and CVP was higher
statistically on the albumin group than the other group. Water balance was
positive on about half of the albumin group. It was negative on the other group. 
Three patients of the albumin group had pulmonary edema.THE CONCLUSION: The state
of patient's hydration is not hypovolemic, as far as the induced hypertension
therapy is possible, even though patient's CVP is low and water blance is
negative. Albumin lets the plasma volume increase easily. Therefore, the risk of 
pulmonary edema may rise when only unreliable CVP is used for the monitoring of
plasma volume. Plasma volume measurement is indispensable to the monitoring of
fluid management for vasospasm and plasma volume should be aimed at 55-60 ml/kg.

PMID: 3707774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Orthop Rev. 1986 Mar;15(3):154-9.

Total hip replacement in the neuromuscularly impaired.

Skoff HD(1), Keggi K.

Author information: 
(1)Wexham Park Hospital, London, England.

Controversy exists over the appropriate use of total hip arthroplasty in patients
with significant neuromuscular disease. This study investigated the use of THR in
neuromuscular disease patients. A criterion for patient inclusion was a diagnosis
of mental retardation, cerebral palsy or Down's syndrome. The study population
consisted of nine patients (12 hips), average age, 42 years. Average follow-up
was 3.5 years.RESULTS: (1) 100% of patients demonstrated decreased pain, expanded
range of motion and improved overall function. (2) All institutionalized patients
were cared for more easily. (3) There were no infections, dislocations or major
complications.
CONCLUSION: Total hip arthroplasty is a reasonable and safe therapeutic option
for the treatment of painful osteoarthritis of the hip in select patients with
neuromuscular disease.

PMID: 3453455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Stain Technol. 1986 Mar;61(2):71-3.

Procedure for staining fixed human brain slices.

Heller MW, Stoddard SL.

The described method provides a new technique for differentiating areas of gray
and white matter in fixed human brain slices. The technique is a modification of 
an existing method permitting use of the nonfading copper phthalocyanine dye
alcian blue. Stained slices show turquoise gray matter that contrasts sharply
with areas of white matter.PROCEDURE: Cut human brains from gross anatomy
laboratory cadavers into 4 mm slices and wash in running tap water for 12 hr.
Oxidize slices in performic acid for 1.5 hr. Wash in running tap water for 12 hr.
Stain slices in shallow dishes in 0.05% aqueous alcian blue. Wash in running tap 
water for 1 hr. Dry for 2-4 hr and embed in plastic.

PMID: 2424148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Brain Res. 1986 Feb 5;364(2):350-9.

Discordant changes between immunoreactive ACTH and beta-endorphin in rat brain
and pituitary during early development.

Kapcala LP.

Discordant changes in brain concentrations of immunoreactive (IR-)
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or beta-endorphin, peptides derived from
pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), have been reported during the latter part of
development and with subsequent aging. These changes were believed to be due to
age-related alterations in the regulation of metabolism of POMC-related peptides.
However, concentrations of IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin have not been
simultaneously studied during early development when many changes in brain
development and behavior are occurring. To determine whether concentrations of
IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin change during early development and whether changes
are discordant, concentrations of IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin were measured in 
several brain regions and pituitary in rats at 10, 29 and 80 days after birth.
Whereas IR-ACTH in extrahypothalamic brain increased at day 29, and decreased at 
day 80, it did not change in hypothalamus and pituitary. Between day 10 and 29,
IR-beta-endorphin rose in all brain regions, but subsequent changes in different 
tissues were variable at day 80. Because concentration changes can be mediated by
alterations in one or more regulatory mechanisms, chromatographic profiles of
hypothalamus and amygdala and molar ratios of all tissues were subsequently
studied to give further insight into the mechanisms of the discordant changes.
Molecular profiles of hypothalamic IR-ACTH and amygdalar IR-beta-endorphin
exhibited lesser proportions of large molecular forms and greater proportions of 
ACTH and beta-endorphin during development. Molar ratios of
IR-ACTH/IR-beta-endorphin in all tissues and ratios of ACTH1-39/beta-endorphin in
hypothalamus and amygdala changed during development.CONCLUSIONS: (1) changes in 
IR-ACTH and IR-beta-endorphin occur in rat pituitary and several brain regions at
different ages during early development and are frequently discordant; (2)
molecular profiles suggested that the activity of processing enzymes for POMC and
its derivatives vary in hypothalamus and amygdala with respect to type of
derivative, brain region, and developmental age; and (3) changes in some
molecular profiles and changes in molar ratios of IR-ACTH/IR-beta-endorphin and
ratios of ACTH1-39/beta-endorphin suggest that changes in processing and possibly
changes in neurosecretion and degradation contribute to concentration changes
independent of possible alterations in biosynthesis of POMC.

PMID: 3004650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1986 Feb;64(1):105-10.

Mass screening of children for strabismus or ametropia with two-flash
photoskiascopy.

Kaakinen K, Kaseva H, Kause ER.

169 non-selected 1-5 year-old children (338 eyes) were screened by two-flash
photoskiascopy with an autofocus camera for strabismus, high anisometropia and
high ametropias without cycloplegia. The photography was performed by nurses or
technicians and the photographs were analyzed by an optician. The sensitivity of 
the method for the refractive errors was tested with an optical demonstration
eye.FINDINGS: 5 esotropias, 1 exotropia, 1 straight-eyed hypermetropic
anisometropia of 4 diopters; 1 false positive high hyperopia (of +2.5 diopters)
of both eyes. The examination of the photographs showed slight refractive errors 
in 33 cases (66 eyes; 19.5%): two of them of symmetrical myopia of -1.0 and -1.75
diopters and 31 of symmetrical hyperopia of +0.25 to +4.25 diopters in
retinoscopy. 128 cases (256 eyes; 76%) were normal on the photographs. Of these, 
37 non-selected cases (74 eyes) were checked clinically and were symmetrical
cases of -1.0 to +3.25 diopters on retinoscopy. No false negative cases appeared 
among these control cases. 2,4% of the photographs failed technically or because 
of noncooperation of the children. Two-flash photoskiascopy, performed by
technicians or nurses provides a valuable tool for mass screening of infants for 
strabismus and/or ametropia causing amblyopia.

PMID: 3962614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1481. Arzneimittelforschung. 1986 Feb;36(2):271-3.

[The problem of the impairment of the action of parasympatholytic substances.
Ophthalmologic criteria and methods].

[Article in German]

Mehlfeld G, Bleichert A.

The parasympatholytic effects on the eye were investigated in 12 healthy
volunteers. In a randomized cross-over double-blind trial 20 or 40 mg
N-butylscopolaminium bromide (Buscopan) or placebo was given by i.v. injection.
Pupillary light reaction, range of accommodation, visual acuity, and nyctometer
values were measured up to 45 min after injection.RESULTS: 1. The mydriatic
effect of both dosages of the drug is moderate. Pupil diameters at the end of the
light reaction are only slightly greater under the influence of the drug than in 
control experiments. The dynamics of the reaction remains unaltered. 2. The range
of accommodation diminishes in a dose-dependent manner. 9-15 min after the
injection the inhibition is maximum. 45 min after injection, even of the 40 mg
dosage, only a small effect remains. 3. Visual acuity and nyctometer values are
not affected by N-butylscopolaminium bromide. The findings were discussed with
respect to the ability to meet the requirements of road traffic.

PMID: 3964335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Dig Dis Sci. 1986 Feb;31(2):131-8.

Psychological comparison of patients with nutcracker esophagus and irritable
bowel syndrome.

Richter JE, Obrecht WF, Bradley LA, Young LD, Anderson KO.

Recent evidence suggests that psychological factors may affect esophageal as well
as intestinal motility. To study this further, we compared the psychological
profiles of 20 irritable bowel patients and 20 patients with recurrent noncardiac
chest pain associated with high-amplitude peristaltic contractions in the distal 
esophagus, the "nutcracker esophagus." Three control groups with 20 patients each
also were evaluated. The Millon Behavioral Health Inventory was administered to
all subjects. This is a 150-item self-report instrument developed to assess
psychological impact of medical illnesses in nonpsychiatric populations. The
nutcracker and irritable bowel patients differed significantly (P less than 0.05)
from controls on scales of gastrointestinal susceptibility and somatic anxiety,
suggesting that these patients react to psychological stress with an increase in 
symptom frequency and severity. They also tend to be hypochondriacal and seek
early medical care. Irritable bowel patients, however, have a more generalized
disorder, as they also scored significantly higher (P less than 0.05) than the
other groups on three general measures of depression and anxiety.CONCLUSION: as
previously observed in the irritable bowel syndrome, emotional factors may
modulate pain perception in the nutcracker esophagus. Simple psychometric
instruments like the Millon Behavioral Health Inventory may be useful in
identifying these patients who may benefit from psychotropic drugs or behavior
modification.

PMID: 3943440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Dig Dis Sci. 1986 Feb;31(2 Suppl):101S-107S.

Effects of absolute ethanol, misoprostol, cimetidine, and phosphate buffer on the
morphology of rat gastric mucosae.

Lacy ER.

Fasted rats were given a single oral dose of one of the following: a synthetic
prostaglandin E1 analog, misoprostol (low dose = 100 micrograms/kg, or high dose 
= 1 mg/kg), cimetidine (low dose = 100 micrograms/kg, or high dose = 50 mg/kg),
phosphate buffer, or absolute ethanol. A second group of rats received a single
oral dose of misoprostol, cimetidine, or phosphate buffer intragastrically,
followed 30 min later by a second oral dose of absolute ethanol. Stomachs were
either surgically removed and examined grossly or were fixed in situ and prepared
for histological observation 15 or 30 min after the initial dose, or 15 or 30 min
after the second dose. Absolute ethanol alone produced grossly visible
hemorrhagic lesions and extensive hyperemia and microscopic damage to the glands,
which was largely confined to the crests of the rugae. Microscopic examination of
nonhemorrhagic areas showed extensive damage of the superficial and gastric pit
epithelial cells as well as some endothelial cells and adjacent structures in the
lamina propria. Pretreatment with phosphate buffer, or either dose of cimetidine,
did not obviate the gross hemorrhagic lesions or the histologic damage produced
by absolute ethanol. Both the low and high doses of misoprostol protected the
stomach against ethanol-induced gross hemorrhagic lesions but did not completely 
protect against microscopic damage to the superficial mucosa.CONCLUSION: the
protective action of misoprostol involves mechanisms that prevent hemorrhagic
lesions but do not completely shield the superficial mucosa from damage. These
mechanisms appear to be independent of misoprostol's antisecretory effects.

PMID: 3080279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. Mol Biol Med. 1986 Feb;3(1):99-112.

Activated (Ia+) T-cells and their subsets in Graves' disease and Hashimoto's
thyroiditis using dual laser flow microfluorocytometric analysis.

Chan JY, Walfish PG.

Lymphocytes from patients with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis were
analysed directly by a dual laser-activated cell-sorter for the percentage of
activated T-cells and their subsets using two-colour dye-labelling with
monoclonal antibodies specific for antigens of Ia+ T-cells, as well as either
their T-helper/inducer (TH/I) or T-suppressor/cytotoxic (TS/C) subsets. Compared 
to normal subjects, patients with hyperthyroid Graves' disease had a
significantly (p less than 0.0001) higher percentage of activated (Ia+ Leu 4+)
T-cells (7.8 +/- 1.9 versus 1.9 +/- 0.4), wherein their percentage of Ia+ Leu 3a+
(Ia+ TH/I) subset was significantly increased (p less than 0.001) and the
percentage of Ia+ Leu 2a+ (Ia+ TS/C) subset decreased; patients with hypothyroid 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis also had a significant (p less than 0.001) increase in
the percentage of Ia+ T-cells (4.3 +/- 0.6 versus 1.9 +/- 0.4), wherein their
percentage of Ia+ TH/I was significantly reduced (p less than 0.001), while the
percentage of the Ia+ TS/C subset was increased compared to normal. Following a
return of thyroid status to euthyroidism, the percentage of Ia+ T-cells decreased
in both Graves' and Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients, but remained significantly 
higher (p less than 0.001) than normal subjects, while the Ia+ TH/I and Ia+ TS/C 
subsets were no longer different.CONCLUSIONS: (1) the feasibility of enumerating 
Ia+ T-cells and their subsets in autoimmune thyroid diseases using two-coloured
dyes and dual laser flow microfluorometric analytical techniques has been
demonstrated. (2) Percentage increases in Ia+ T-cells have been demonstrated in
both hyperthyroid Graves' and hypothyroid Hashimoto's which, following
restoration to euthyroidism, decreased but still remained significantly higher
than normal. (3) Patients with hyperthyroid Graves' and hypothyroid Hashimoto's
disease were demonstrated to have the opposite phenotypic changes within
activated T-cell subsets, thereby indicating that their pathogenic mechanisms are
different.

PMID: 3083193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 1986 Feb;44(2):109-15.

Induction of progestin receptors in the rat MtTF4 tumor of pituitary origin whose
growth is inhibited by estradiol.

Albaladejo V, André J.

When the MtTF4 pituitary tumor was grown in male rats not treated by estradiol,
the cytosol prepared from it contained very few binding sites for the synthetic
[3H]ORG progestin. Following estradiol treatment there was a reversible increase 
of these binding sites. The ligand specificity and the sedimentation constant
were shown to be similar to those of progestin receptors contained in other
tissues. Daily treatment for 8 days with 10 micrograms 17 alpha-estradiol, 50
micrograms dihydrotestosterone or 50 micrograms dexamethasone did not induce
progestin binding.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the virtual absence of progestin receptors
in a tumor does not allow an absence of response to endocrine manipulation to be 
predicted; (2) the progestin receptors are induced by estradiol in the MtTF4
tumor despite the fact that the growth of this tumor is inhibited by estradiol;
and (3) this work, taken together with previous reports, suggests that the
estrogen receptors known to be located in the MtTF4 tumor have some functional
properties in common with those tissues or cells whose growth is either
stimulated by or insensitive to estradiol.

PMID: 3949065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. No Shinkei Geka. 1986 Feb;14(2):143-7.

[CT-myelography of cervical cord injury].

[Article in Japanese]

Koyanagi I, Isu T, Iwasaki Y, Sugimoto S, Abe H, Saito H, Ihara T, Mitsumori K,
Nakagawa T, Sakuragi M.

We reported seven cases of acute cervical cord injuries who were examined by
CT-Myelography (CTM) within 7 days after trauma. The presence or absence of
spinal cord enlargement, the initial neurological status and the neurological
prognosis of these patients were studied. The neurological status of each patient
was graded by the method of Frankel who defined five grades from A to E according
to the severity of neurological deficits. Seven patients were all males. The
youngest was 18 and the oldest was 73 years old, with a mean age of 40.7 years.
Follows up periods ranged from 7 to 23 months.RESULT: CTM revealed the
enlargement of spinal cord in two cases, who had severe neurological deficits and
were graded to A. No neurological improvements were obtained in these cases. Five
cases without cord enlargement were graded to A in one patient, B in one patient 
and C in three patients. Four of these five patients improved neurologically. One
grade C patient remained grade C. Complete block of subarachnoid space was
observed in two out of seven cases. Cord enlargement was present in one of them. 
Another case of complete block improved from C to D.
CONCLUSION: We consider the presence of cord enlargement which can be
demonstrated by CTM well correlates the severity of the cord damage and presume
poor neurological prognosis. Internal decompression, such as posterior
longitudinal myelotomy may be recommended to the case of cord enlargement. When
the cord enlargement is absent, improvement of neurological grade is expected
although the initial neurological status shows severe deficits.

PMID: 3703113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1487. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1986 Feb-Mar;190(1):14-23.

[Fetomaternal blood analysis in the diagnosis of subpartal hypoxia of the fetus].

[Article in German]

Kastendieck E, Yilmar G, Jensen A, Horner G.

Clinical and animal experiments suggest that fetal metabolic acidosis is
influenced by placental transfer of lactate and bicarbonate. It was the aim of
this study to answer the following questions: What kind of relationship does
exist between fetal metabolic acidosis and maternal metabolic acidosis? Does
fetal metabolic acidosis coincide with alterations of fetal heart rate and fetal 
oxygenation? Does the maternofetal difference of base deficit reflect fetal
oxygen deprivation more accurately than the measurement of fetal base deficit
alone? What is the maternofetal difference of base deficit in normoxia and mild
hypoxia? In 100 pregnant women (gestational age greater than 37 weeks, fetal
weight greater than 3 rd percentile) a fetomaternal blood analysis (FMBA) was
performed during labour and immediately after delivery. The metabolic acidosis
was measured as base deficit of extracellular fluid (BDECF).RESULTS: The fetal
metabolic acidosis depends mainly on the buffer base concentration in the
maternal blood. Moderate repetitive hypoxemia with no severe pathological
FHR-alterations do not show a significant relationship to fetal metabolic
acidosis. Moderate hypoxia (defined as the combination of oxygen saturation below
30%, periodical decelerations and basal fetal heart rate above 160 b/min) can be 
recognized most accurately by determining the maternofetal differences of BDECF. 
In fetal normoxia BDECF in the maternal blood is 4 mmol/l higher than in the
fetal blood, in moderate hypoxia the maternofetal difference of BDECF is reduced 
to 1 mmol/l. These findings are in accordance with the results of Roversi et al. 
(1975). Conclusions for the intensive surveillance of the fetus during labour by 
fetal blood analysis: Within the range of pH 7.10-7.30 the maternal BDECF should 
be determined in addition to the fetal BDECF to calculate the maternal fetal
difference of BDECF. If BDECF in the fetus exceeds the maternal BDECF, the risk
of fetal hypoxia is increasing. In these cases, delivery should be performed as
soon as possible avoiding additional hypoxic or mechanical birth injuries. The
technical procedure of fetal maternal blood analysis is described and the
difficulties of routine use are discussed.

PMID: 3083613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1986 Feb-Mar;190(1):1-8.

[Normalization of fetal heart rate and fetal blood pressure following reduction
of uterine blood circulation].

[Article in German]

Hohmann M, Künzel W.

To analyze the variability of fetal heart rate (FHR) after a temporary definite
hypoxia, uterine blood flow (QUT) was totally reduced in 8 pregnant sheep. In 13 
experiments the reduction lasted 60 sec and in 13 further experiments 180 sec.
The normalization of FHR after reduction of QUT was compared with the change of
fetal blood pressure (BP) and fetal oxygen saturation (SO2).RESULTS: During
reduction of QUT the fall of FHR and the decrease of SO2 was significant (r =
-0,43, 2 alpha less than 0,05). With the start of normalization there was a
temporary correlation between the increase of FHR and the restauration of SO2
after 12-18 sec (r = 0,79, 2 alpha less than 0,001). Thus the initial rise of FHR
might be caused by the chemoreceptors. Above all after longer reduction of QUT
there were three typical reactions during the recovery period: increase of FHR
and BP, short fall of FHR and BP and increase of FHR and continous fall of BP.
The start of normalization of FHR after reduction of QUT depends on the
restauration of SO2. Because of the variable FHR response it is not possible to
describe the duration of the preceding hypoxia.

PMID: 3083612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Nihon Naibunpi Gakkai Zasshi. 1986 Jan 20;62(1):26-33.

[Role of renal dopamine receptor in the pathogenesis of hypertension after sodium
loading].

[Article in Japanese]

Shigetomi S, Ueno S, Kohno H, Tosaki H, Suenaga K, Hashimoto S, Fukuchi S.

The purpose of this study is to clarify the role of renal dopamine receptor in
the pathogenesis of salt-dependent hypertension. Male Wistar rats were raised
under three different conditions, control, 1% NaCl loading (NaCl) and 1% NaCl
plus metoclopramide with a dose of 1.5 mg/kg daily (MC), for 2 weeks. Then, renal
plasma membranes were prepared by ultracentrifugation method, and maximal binding
capacity (Bmax) and dissociation constant (Kd) were determined by Scatchard
analysis using 3H-spiperone. And plasma aldosterone and prolactin concentration
in these three groups were measured by radioimmunoassay.RESULTS: Systolic blood
pressure measured tail-cuff method significantly elevated in MC group, but not
control and NaCl group. Bmax of renal dopamine receptor was 535.9 +/- 85.0
fmol/mg protein, 594.9 +/- 159.3 fmol/mg protein, 529.1 +/- 166.1 fmol/mg
protein, in control, NaCl and MC group, respectively. Kd of renal dopamine
receptor in NaCl group was significantly lower than control (p less than 0.05).
Renal dopamine contents of NaCl and MC group were lower than control. There was a
negative correlation between renal dopamine content and Bmax of renal dopamine
receptor in NaCl group (r = -0.95, p less than 0.02). In MC group, plasma
aldosterone concentration was slightly higher than control and NaCl group, but
there was no differences in plasma prolactin concentration among these three
groups.

PMID: 3699195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Biochem Pharmacol. 1986 Jan 15;35(2):183-93.

Release of leukotrienes into the perfusate of calcium-ionophore stimulated rabbit
lungs. Influence of 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors.

Schulz R, Seeger W.

Arachidonic acid and the calcium ionophore A23187 are known to provoke a
pulmonary artery pressor response, edema formation and release of thromboxane B2 
(TxB2) and 6-keto prostaglandin-F1 alpha (6-keto PGFl alpha) into the
recirculating perfusion fluid of isolated blood-free perfused rabbit lungs. Here 
we investigated the release of leukotrienes (LTs) by repetitive 0.1 microM A23187
challenge in the presence or absence of cyclooxygenase and 5-lipoxygenase
inhibitors. RP-HPLC analysis of perfusion fluid extracts persistently showed
peaks with retention times of authentic LTC4, -D4, -E4 and -B4. Fractionated
RP-HPLC eluate subjected to radioimmunoassay (RIA) with LTC4 and LTB4 antibodies 
showed two major peaks of immunoreactivity corresponding to those compounds and
minor immunoreactivity with LTD4 and LTE4 in accordance with the stated
cross-reactivities of the LTC4 antibody. Good correlation for both LTB4 and LTC4 
levels measured by RP-HPLC versus RIA of collected HPLC peaks was found. Five to 
ten min after A23187 challenge, LTC4, -D4 and -B4 levels ranged from 800 to 1600 
pg/ml perfusate. LTC4 reached a maximum level at 20 min whereas LTB4 slightly
increased over a 35 min period. Upon repeated A23187 challenge, interrupted by
rinsing phases with fresh perfusion fluid, the LT release was reproducible
several times with increasing reaction strength. This performed in presence of
increasing concentration of the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors AA-861 or U-60,257
caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the release of all LTs with an IC50 of
approximately 10(-8) to 10(-7) M and 10(-6) M, respectively. Cyclooxygenase
inhibition with acetylsalicylic acid at doses completely suppressing the A23187
induced pressor response did not inhibit the peptidoleukotriene release and only 
slightly depressed LTB4 release.CONCLUSION: using a rapid and sensitive
extraction and RP-HPLC method isolated lungs are found to release nanomolar
amounts of LTs into the perfusate upon repetitive A23187 challenge, suppressed by
5-lipoxygenase inhibition.

PMID: 3002385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Jan 3;111(1):15-9.

[Comparison of the bronchodilator and protective effect of methylxanthines].

[Article in German]

Magnussen H, Litt M, Reuss G, Stutz P, Jörres R.

In study I, carried out on 9 asthmatics to investigate whether the bronchodilator
and protective effect of intravenous theophylline, dissolved in ethylene diamine 
(T.E.) or proxyphylline and diprophylline (T.P.D.), showed different dose-effect 
relationships, 100 mg theophylline with T.E., T.P.D. or NaCl (placebo) were
infused 5 times at 30 minute intervals. This was followed by inhalation of 0.4 mg
fenoterol. Results showed that the bronchodilator effect of 500 mg theophylline
with a serum concentration greater than 15 mg/l was only about 60% of that for
fenoterol alone. In study II, 11 patients with exercise-induceable respiratory
obstruction received 200 and 351 mg theophylline with T.E., 200 mg with T.P.D. or
placebo prior to exercise and cold air inhalation. Here theophylline had a
dose-dependent protective effect. With a theophylline serum concentration of 5
mg/l there was already a reduction in exercise asthma by more than 60% in
comparison to placebo. At comparable serum concentrations the effect of T.P.D.
was better than T.E. in both studies although the difference was not
statistically significant.CONCLUSION: Since the bronchodilator effect of
methylxanthines is less than the protective effect, the prophylactic use of
theophylline should be given more attention.

PMID: 3940830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Jan 3;111(1):7-10.

[Long-term observation of ventricular extrasystole in children with normal
hearts].

[Article in German]

Lang D, Kupferschmid C, von Bernuth G.

Between 1971 and 1980 uniform ventricular extrasystoles, classified as benign,
were noticed in 47 children with normal hearts. After a mean observation period
of 4.4 years 27 of these children, mean age 10.5 years, could be reexamined. This
involved physical examination followed by resting and exercise ECG, 24-hour
continuous ECG and echocardiography. Of the 27 children, 18 still had
extrasystoles having the same morphological characteristics and identical
behaviour under exercise as those seen on first examination. Nine children were
free of extrasystoles in all ECG examinations. In none of the 27 children were
there any complaints between the first and the second examination or signs of
degeneration of the extrasystoles into threatening dysrhythmias.CONCLUSION:
Uniform extrasystoles disappearing or decreasing on exercise in otherwise healthy
children require no treatment even when occurring frequently and persisting over 
years.

PMID: 2416524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Acta Cardiol. 1986;41(3):179-83.

Left ventricular dysfunction versus paravalvular leak in patients with mitral
disc prostheses.

Assanelli D, Marangoni S, Cuminetti S, Aquilina M, Corti M, Dall'Oglio MB.

Left ventricular dysfunction and prosthesis malfunction are the main causes of
hemodynamic deterioration following prosthetic mitral valve replacement. The aim 
of this study is to reassess the usefulness of a combined echo-phonocardiographic
technique to differentiate these different situations in order to select medical 
or surgical treatment in patients with a mitral disc prosthesis. Two patient
groups were studied. The first group consists of five patients with paravalvular 
leak (PL), surgically or pathologically verified. Second group: nine patients
with left ventricular failure (LVF) and normal functioning prosthesis. The
diastolic diameter of the left ventricle (LV) was significantly increased in the 
LVF group compared with the PL group. A protodiastolic hump was present in four
cases of PL. The variability of the interval between A2 and the mitral valve
opening (delta A2-MVO) was less than 30 msec in the LVF group and greater than 30
msec in the PL group. The interval between A2 and maximal LV posterior wall
(A2-PW) exceeded 60 msec in the PL group and was shorter than 60 msec in the LVF 
group.IN CONCLUSION: the echo-phonocardiographic technique, especially when by
using two newly proposed parameters, seems to be very useful to discriminate
between PL and LVF.

PMID: 3490083  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 1986;16(1):47-51.

[Determination of amylase creatinine clearance in children and adolescents].

[Article in Spanish]

Heffes Nahmod LA, Litwin N, Guastavino E, Licastro R.

24 children whose ages ranged from 10 days to 14 years (x 5.5. ys.), 16 males and
8 females, hospitalized in our Service on account of extra-digestive were
studied. Creatinine and amylase determination were performed on serum and 24 hs. 
urine specimens; lipase activity was measured only in serum. Amylase-creatinine
clearance ratio varied between 1.3 and 5.8% (x 3.1 +/- 1.3). Serum amylase ranged
from 36 to 460 U/l (x 123 U/l). Five patients had hyperamylasemia. 2 were urlian 
parotiditis, 2 were under clinical surveillance after surgery and the last one
was a septic meningitis. All of them showed amylase-creatinine ratio values up to
2.5%. Serum lipase ranged from 6 to 197 U/l (x 79 U/l), falling into the normal
interval. No abnormal clearance was found.CONCLUSIONS: hyperamylasemia is not
specific for pancreatic disturbances in children; the serum lipase and the
amylase-creatinine clearance ratio seem to be useful tools to rule out pancreatic
involvement in hyperamylasemic patients.

PMID: 2437749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Acta Leprol. 1986 Jan-Mar;4(1):79-92.

[Prevention of perforating plantar ulcers: trial directed by a mobile team].

[Article in French]

Hirzel C, Millan J, Boucher P, Naudin JC, Diouf B.

AIMS: to prevent the appearance of plantar ulcerations and then mutilations, by
going in the field in order to: make suitable footwear, educate the patients,
train the paramedical staff. Means: 1 fitted lorry, 1 physiotherapist, 1
shoemaker, and 1 educator.
RESULTS: In one year, 206 patients have been provided with shoes and followed up.
Advice have been taken exactly in the leper villages in which the attendance rate
is of 98%; this rate varies between 47 to 70% in the all-purpose dispensaries.
Paramedical workers of all-purpose Health Centers did not take great interest in 
this action. After 6-12 months under observation: 84% of good results for the
feet without deformity or slightly deformed; 51% for the deformed feet. The
results are quite satisfactory for the feet without plantar ulcer at the
beginning, and that whatever the food deformity stage. But for the feet wounded
by plantar ulcer at the beginning, 33% of recovery have been reported after
wearing these shoes.

PMID: 3526797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1986;65(1):45-8.

The regulation of menstrual cycle and its relationship to the moon.

Law SP.

A synchronous relationship between the menstrual cycle and lunar rhythm was
confirmed by: Investigative data: Among the 826 female volunteers with a normal
menstrual cycle, aged between 16 and 25 years, a large proportion of
menstruations occurred around the new moon (28.3%), while at other times during
the lunar month the proportion of menstruations occurring ranged between
8.5-12.6%; the difference was significant (p less than 0.01).LABORATORY FINDINGS:
The 6-hydroxymelatonin levels in the urina sanguinis of 3 female volunteers
reached their zenith prior to and during menstruation, gradually declining to
their nadir during ovulation. The difference in 6-hydroxymelatonin between
menstruation and ovulation was significant (p less than 0.01). Two of these three
volunteers had their zenith in the period of the new moon and nadir 3-4 days
prior to the full moon respectively. Clinical experience: The
lunar-menses-regulatory therapy in treatment of Nephropenic secondary amenorrhea 
revealed 4 clinical cure, 5 marked effect, 8 menogogue and 3 ineffect out of 20
cases.

PIP: A synchronous relationship between the menstrual cycle and lunar rhythm was 
confirmed by investigative data, laboratory findings, and clinical experience.
Among the 826 female volunteers with a normal menstrual cycle (ages 16-25), a
large proportion of menstruations occurred around the new moon (28.3%), while at 
other times during the lunar month, the proportion of menstruations occurring
ranged between 8.5-12.6%; the difference was significant (P0.01). The
6-hydroxymelatonin levels in the urina sanguinis of 3 female volunteers reached
their zenith prior to and during menstruation, gradually declining to their nadir
during ovulation. The difference in 6-hydroxymelatonin between menstruation and
ovulation was significant (P0.01). 2 of these 3 volunteers had their zenith in
the period of the new moon and nadir 3-4 days prior to the full moon
respectively. The lunar-menses-regulatory therapy in treatment of Nephropenic
secondary amenorrhea revealed 4 clinical cures, 5 marked effects, 8 menogogue,
and 3 ineffective out of 20 cases. author's modified
author's modified

PMID: 3716780  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Acta Physiol Scand Suppl. 1986;556:129-36.

Water and electrolyte fluxes during exercise and their relation to muscle
fatigue.

Sjøgaard G.

Muscle fatigue - defined as impaired contractility - coincided in rat skeletal
muscle during in vitro experiments with a decrease in intracellular potassium
concentration, [K], and a decrease in resting membrane potential, RMP. In man
changes in intra- and extracellular electrolyte concentrations and RMP were
calculated from muscle biopsies and blood samples during voluntary contractions. 
At exhaustion in maximal exercise the intracellular [K] decreased by 20-40 mM
from a resting value of 165 mM. Simultaneously extracellular [K] increased by 1-2
mM, and also the intra- as well as extracellular [Na] tended to increase. The
calculated RMP therefore decreased from a resting value of -89 mV to -75 mV.
During prolonged submaximal exercise similar changes occurred although the rate
of these changes was slower. The K lost from the exercising muscles was being
taken up by other tissues, and during recovery the fatigued muscles regain the
previously lost K.IN CONCLUSION: the K-gradient across the muscle membrane
decreased significantly during maximal as well as submaximal exercise. At
exhaustion this change is of an order of magnitude, which may well impair the
excitability of the muscle membrane and thereby the contractility of the muscle
fibres.

PMID: 3471050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. Agents Actions Suppl. 1986;18:63-8.

Degradation of cartilage matrix by purified elastase and its control by an
endogenous purified specific cartilage elastase inhibitor.

Arsenis C, Thonar EJ, Kuettner KE.

We report here that an endogenous protein in cartilage is capable of inhibiting
leukocyte elastase degradation of cartilage matrix. This inhibitor is specific
for elastase. After 30 min of incubation, small amounts of the purified elastase 
are capable of releasing relatively large amounts of uronic acid positive
material and relatively small amounts of collagenous and noncollagenous protein. 
The hydrolytic effectiveness of elastase is exemplified by its action on various 
natural substrates. This action, however, is inhibited by a specific natural
elastase inhibitor purified from cartilage.INTRODUCTION: The extracellular matrix
of cartilage is responsible for the resiliency, tensile strength plus ion and
water binding ability of this tissue. Any modification in the arrangement or
composition of proteoglycans, collagen and glycoproteins found in the cartilage
matrix affects these properties. Such modification can be derived by the action
of hydrolytic enzymes originating from chrondrocytes or from cells attracted in
the cartilage area by chemotaxis.

PMID: 3460314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 1986 Jan-Feb;10(1):54-8.

Fetal alcohol syndrome: glucose and liver metabolism in term rat fetus and
neonate.

Singh SP, Snyder AK, Pullen GL.

The combined effects of chronic ethanol ingestion and fasting (24-hr fast, except
water, prior to delivery) were examined in term pregnant rats and their
offspring. Rats fed liquid diet containing 5% (w/v) ethanol (EF) consumed fewer
calories than those fed control diet and exhibited reduced weight gain relative
to either ad libitum-fed (AF) or pair-fed (PF) controls. While the number of live
fetuses at term was unaffected, fetal body and liver weights were reduced in EF
litters. Blood glucose levels were significantly lower in EF fetuses although
maternal glucose levels did not differ between the groups. Liver glycogen levels 
also were reduced in EF fetuses, without any change in plasma immunoreactive
insulin or immunoreactive glucagon levels. Both active and total glycogen
synthase and phosphorylase were significantly lower in livers of EF fetuses than 
in livers of control fetuses. After delivery, blood glucose and plasma
immunoreactive insulin levels fell more slowly in EF neonates than in either
control group, but EF neonates remained hypoglycemic at 4 hr postnatal, whereas
glycemia in both control groups had recovered to normal. Plasma immunoreactive
glucagon levels in EF were elevated during the first 2 hr following delivery
relative to either AF or PF controls, and hepatic glycogen levels were reduced in
EF neonates during the entire interval studied.CONCLUSION: Fetal exposure to
ethanol in utero and to a short maternal fasting prior to delivery results in
fetal growth retardation, hypoglycemia, hypoinsulinemia, and liver glycogen
depletion at term. Also, both glycogen synthase (active and total) and
phosphorylase (active and total) were decreased as well.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

PMID: 3083709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Am J Clin Nutr. 1986 Jan;43(1):128-35.

Validity of skinfold thickness measures of formerly obese adults.

Scherf J, Franklin BA, Lucas CP, Stevenson D, Rubenfire M.

To assess the validity of skinfold thickness estimates of body fatness in
formerly morbid obese adults, 23 patients (17 women, 6 men) who had completed a
protein-sparing modified fast were studied. Mean +/- SD weight loss was 60.7 +/- 
20.6 kg for men and 42.6 +/- 11.5 kg for women. Body density and percent body
fatness were determined after weight loss according to four commonly used
skinfold equations: Pollock (P); Durnin-Rahaman (D-R); Durnin-Womersley (D-W);
and, Jackson-Pollock (J-P). The validity of these measurements was assessed by
hydrostatic weighing, which revealed a percent body fatness of 20.4 +/- 6.5 for
men and 29.8 +/- 8.4 for women. The mean difference and total error (square root 
of the mean of squared deviations) between skinfold predicted and
hydrostatically-determined percent body fatness for each skinfold equation were: 
P, 2.0 and 4.9; D-R, 4.2 and 6.6; D-W, 7.1 and 8.4; and, J-P, 0.7 and 4.4. With
the exception of the latter equation, all significantly overestimated (p less
than 0.01) hydrostatically-determined percent body fatness.CONCLUSION: Select
skinfold equations may result in a marked overestimation of body fatness in
formerly obese patients.

PMID: 3942086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Am J Med Genet. 1986 Jan-Feb;23(1-2):715-21.

Recombination and amplification of pyrimidine-rich sequences may be responsible
for initiation and progression of the Xq27 fragile site: an hypothesis.

Nussbaum RL, Airhart SD, Ledbetter DH.

HYPOTHESIS: A pyrimidine-rich sequence (PRS) of DNA is present as a normal
sequence in the q27 band of the human X chromosome. Under conditions of
pyrimidine nucleotide triphosphate deprivation during S phase, deoxyuridine
monophosphate is misincorporated and has to be excised during G2 by DNA repair
mechanisms. When a simple PRS is present on both homologous X chromosomes during 
oogenesis, PRS may undergo amplification through non-homologous crossing-over to 
produce the initial lesion of the fragile (X). Carriers of such initial lesions
will be unaffected transmitting females or males. When an X chromosome bearing
such an initial lesion is itself paired with a homologous X carrying a simple PRS
during oogenesis, a much higher rate of non-homologous crossing-over may occur
resulting in progression to an even longer stretch of pyrimidine rich DNA in this
region; the increased length of PRS through amplification makes the region too
long to be repaired during G2 and allows it to be seen as a fragile site in
metaphase chromosome preparations. Furthermore, this amplified lesion may
interfere with transcription of one or more genes in this region and produce the 
phenotype of the Martin-Bell syndrome.

PMID: 3456708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1986;75(5):226-9.

Parietal cell vagotomy for duodenal and pyloric ulcer: clinical and secretory
results.

Nylamo EI, Inberg MV.

In the Department of Surgery, University of Turku, 310 patients underwent
parietal cell vagotomy for duodenal (268 patients) or pyloric-prepyloric ulcer
(42 patients) in the years 1973-82. The male/female ratio was 4/1 and mean age 43
years. There was no mortality. Splenic injury led to splenectomy in 2.6%. A
relaparotomy for intraabdominal bleeding was done in 1%. No case of minor curve
necrosis occurred. During the follow-up of 3-9 (mean 5) years 9 patients had died
of unrelated causes and 29 could not be traced leaving 272 patients for study.
Late symptoms occurred as follows: Dyspepsia 20% (recurrences excluded),
heartburn 17%, regurgitation 8%, vomiting 4%, epigastric fullness 12%, dumping 5%
and diarrhoea 6%. There were 17 proven recurrences of ulcer (6.3%), 11 after
original duodenal ulcer (4.7%) and 6 after pyloric-prepyloric ulcer (16.7%). In
addition, 4 patients were reoperated for other reasons (1 for dyspepsia, 1 for
stenosis and 2 for oesophagitis). The overall results according to the Visick
classification were as follows: Grade I 49%, grade II 18%, grade III 15%, grade
IV 18%.CONCLUSION: the method is safe and when used for duodenal ulcer will give 
satisfactory results, but after pyloric or prepyloric ulcer the recurrence rate
may be higher.

PMID: 3827162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 1986;47(5):332-41.

[Current status of somatocrinin, or GRF, a hypothalamic growth hormone-secreting 
factor].

[Article in French]

Sassolas G, Guillemin R.

This short review on GRF is divided into two parts: laboratory findings: Current 
status of the knowledge on the primary structure of all the GRFs isolated from
mammalian sources; structure activity relationships as obtained with synthetic
fragments and analogs of GRF; the mechanisms of action of GRF in vitro and in
vivo; the localization by techniques of hypothalamic GRF neurons.CLINICAL
STUDIES: A summary of past and current clinical studies with hGRF or fragments of
hGRF establishing the dose range/effect in normal young adults; pharmacokinetics 
of hGRF; intravenous, sub-cutaneous and intranasal modes of administration; multi
hours perfusions; the use of hGRF alone and in combination with other releasing
factors as a diagnostic tool; early clinical results of stimulation of statural
growth. Limited bibliography.

PMID: 3103519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1986;462:194-206.

Cerebral blood flow and metabolic rate during seizures. Relationship to epileptic
brain damage.

Ingvar M.

After long periods of status epilepticus, selective neuronal necrosis is incurred
in the neocortex (layer III-IV), in the hippocampus (CA1 and CA4), and in the
thalamus (VPL-VPM). In these areas the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose is
increased to between 200-300% of control, indicating a correlation between
neuronal damage and enhanced neuronal activity. Measurements of local cerebral
blood flow indicate that the damage is not due to insufficient supply of oxygen. 
In most rats with status epilepticus lasting longer than 30 minutes, an
infarction develops in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. In this region the
metabolic rate is first increased but later during the seizure activity falls to 
very low values indicating cell necrosis.CONCLUSION: prolonged neuronal
hyperactivity with a concomitant increase in the metabolic rate for glucose is a 
prerequisite for the development of neuronal damage. However, the necrosis of the
SNPR demonstrates that other factors determine the vulnerability of neurons to
hyperexcitation, e.g., the type of agonist acting on the neuron.

PMID: 3518570  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1986 Jan-Feb;56(1):71-6.

[The heart in dermatomyositis and polymyositis ].

[Article in Spanish]

Badui E, Mintz G, Robles E.

We studied eleven consecutive patients: eight with Dermatomyositis (DM) and three
with Polymyositis (PM) from the cardiological point of view through non invasive 
methods. Nine patients (82%) had some kind of cardiopulmonary complications as
shown by any of the used methods.SYMPTOMS: eight (73%) referred some kind of
cardiopulmonary symptoms, mainly dyspnea; Physical examination; in seven (64%)
was abnormal, detecting increased second pulmonary sound in four (36%), findings 
of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) in two (18%) and in two (18%) S3 gallop;
Electrocardiogram: in seven (64%) was abnormal; six (55%) had some kind of heart 
enlargement corresponding four (36%) to right atrial or ventricular hypertrophy
(RAH & RVH) and two (18%) to left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), three (27%) had 
incomplete or complete right bundle branch block, one (9%) had bifascicular block
and one (9%) left anterior hemiblock. Two (18%) had sinus tachycardia and two
(18%) atrial premature contractions; d) chest ray: six (55%) were abnormal, among
them, three (27%) had pulmonary fibrosis, three (27%) had RAH and/or RVH, two
(18%) had LVH and one (9%) pericardial effusion; e) Echocardiogram: was abnormal 
in eight (73%), corresponding three (27%) to RVH, three to MVP which has been
considered rare, in two (18%) congestive cardiomyopathy, in two (18%) pericardial
effusion and in one (9%) type "A" paradoxical septal movement.

PMID: 2943248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1986 Jan;279(1):162-76.

Chronic treatment with tibalosine in essential hypertension.

Staessen J, Fagard R, Fiocchi R, Lijnen P, M'Buyamba-Kabangu JR, Amery A.

After a run-in period on placebo, 26 patients with essential hypertension were
prescribed single-blind tibalosine, 150 mg daily. On tibalosine their blood
pressure decreased from 157/101 to 147/93 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) and their
heart rate from 74 to 68 beats per minute (p less than 0.01), while plasma renin 
activity tended to fall from 0.81 to 0.65 ng/ml/hr (p = 0.06). Twelve patients,
maintained on monotherapy with tibalosine for an average of 3.8 months, kept a
diastolic pressure below 90 mm Hg. Ten patients, whose diastolic pressure on
tibalosine alone remained equal to or higher than 90 mm Hg were continued on this
drug for 6.6 months, but were additionally given in a double-blind and randomized
way either placebo, or atenolol 100 mg, or chlorthalidone, 50 mg, daily. As
compared to tibalosine plus placebo, blood pressure and heart rate decreased
further on tibalosine plus atenolol from 148/97 to 140/90 mm Hg (p less than
0.05) and from 70 to 60 beats per minute (p less than 0.05), respectively. The
additional blood pressure lowering effect of tibalosine plus chlorthalidone to a 
level of 143/96 mm Hg was not statistically significant. Eight of 10 patients'
blood pressure responded better to tibalosine combined with atenolol than with
chlorthalidone. Because of adverse reactions tibalosine was discontinued in 8 of 
the 26 patients (31%), namely in 4 who prematurely dropped out from the study and
in another 4 patients, who remained adherent to the protocol. Somnolence, weary
legs and dry mouth were reported more frequently (p less than 0.05) on tibalosine
than on placebo.IN CONCLUSION: tibalosine is an effective anti-hypertensive drug,
but side effects preclude its clinical use at a daily dose of 150 mg; the
combination with a beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug seems therapeutically more
effective than with a thiazide.

PMID: 3516092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. Boll Ist Sieroter Milan. 1986;65(5):347-53.

[Natural history of the state of asymptomatic carrier of HBsAg: 7-year
follow-up].

[Article in Italian]

Antoniozzi F, Meucci G, Vecchi M, Ronchi G, Collatina R, Del Ninno E, de Franchis
R.

Ninety-six chronic asymptomatic HBsAg carriers underwent liver biopsy. Liver
histology was normal in 5 cases, showed nonspecific changes in 67, chronic
persistent hepatitis in 18, and chronic-active hepatitis in 6. Seventy-four
patients were followed for up to 105 months (mean 80 months) in order to evaluate
the occurrence of clinical, biochemical, serological or histological changes.
Only two patients cleared the HBsAg, respectively 10 and 96 months after
undergoing liver biopsy; the latter patient became anti-HBs positive 6 months
after he cleared HBsAg. All 10 patients who initially were negative for both
HBeAg and anti-HBe became anti-HBe positive during follow-up. All 4 patients who 
were HBeAg positive at the time of liver biopsy cleared HBeAg 6 to 39 months
thereafter. Two of them became anti-HBe positive. None of the patients initially 
HBeAg negative became positive for this antigen during follow-up. Significant
increases of serum transaminases were observed in 5 patients; in one
superinfection by delta agent was documented, the other 4 being constantly
anti-delta negative. Three of the latter patients underwent repeat liver biopsy, 
which showed progression from minimal changes to chronic persistent hepatitis in 
one, and from minimal changes to chronic active hepatitis in another. In the
third patient, repeat biopsy showed persistence of chronic persistent
hepatitis.IN CONCLUSION: chronic hepatitis occurs in about 25% of chronic
asymptomatic HBsAg carriers; clearance of HBsAg is a rare event among these
patients; the HBe system has little diagnostic or prognostic value; delta
superinfection is rare; however, deterioration of liver histology may occur even 
in the absence of delta superinfection.

PMID: 3828089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Brain Res. 1986 Jan;389(1-2):169-77.

The time course of the changes in axon number of both oculomotor nerves in normal
and unilaterally enucleated Xenopus laevis.

Schönenberger N, Escher G, van der Loos H.

In this paper we analyze long-term changes, extending into adulthood, of the
number of axons in the oculomotor nerve of Xenopus laevis. We counted the number 
of axons in that nerve in normal control (nor) animals, and on the operated
(ipsilateral, ip) and contralateral (co) sides of enucleated animals at
premetamorphosis, metamorphic climax, juvenile (3 and 7 months) and adult (16.5
months) stages. The experimental animals had had one of their ocular primordia
removed at hatching. In the nor-nerves there is a loss of 23% of the axons
between premetamorphosis and climax, then a further drop of 35% by the 3-month
stage, followed by a gain of 39% on reaching adulthood. At premetamorphosis the
ip-nerves already contain less than the normal number of axons, which is reduced 
a further 73% by 3 months; there is no subsequent increase in adulthood. The
co-nerves lose no axons from premetamorphosis to climax; they therefore have 30% 
more axons than normals; this excess is kept until 7 months; from then to sexual 
maturity the increase is only 11%.CONCLUSIONS: (1) unilateral target removal
affects also the nerve innervating the contralateral target: the increased loss
of axons on the operated side is accompanied by reduced loss on the other; (2)
the contralateral side displays for some time an excess of axons compared to
normal, but this is finally cancelled out by the addition of many axons in the
adult nor animals; (3) adjustment of axon number is not restrained to embryonic
stages but continues at least until sexual maturation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 3948006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. Chir Pediatr. 1986;27(3):121-3.

[Transappendicular continent cystostomy. Critical study apropos of 30 cases].

[Article in French]

Mollard P, Basset T, Mouriquand P.

Continent vesicostomy using appendix has been performed in 30 incontinent
children (myelo-meningocele). Surgical technique is described laying stress on
the closure of the bladder neck and the appendix arrangement: appendix is
implanted in the bladder with an antireflux sub-mucosal tunnel and the other end 
is hemmed to the skin. Self-catheterization is very easy. All patients are dry
but the rate of complications was very high: 77%--8 leakage through the bladder
neck imposing one or two re-operations. 10 uretero-hydronephrosis related to a
small and hypertonic bladder: enterocystoplasty with good results--5 lithiasis--2
perforations. Success of this technique is closely linked to the construction of 
a large and low pressure bladder: 11 enterocystoplasty have been performed
secondarily and 4 during the first operation. Actually 26/30 patients are well
with normal kidneys and excellent comfort.FOLLOW-UP: 1 to 7 years.

PMID: 3769109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. Circ Shock. 1986;19(3):275-82.

Microbial filtrates activate granulocytes without complement or prostaglandins.

Yellin SA, Garrity FL, Williams JJ, Slotman GJ.

Cardiorespiratory dysfunction in sepsis may be mediated by circulating
complement, activated leukocytes, prostaglandins, or by a direct effect of
endotoxin. The purposes of this study were to determine if pathogenic microbes
produce these substances and to evaluate the direct effects of substances
released by micro-organisms on granulocyte aggregation (GA). Escherichia coli,
(E. coli), Aeromonas hydrophila (Aeromonas h.), Staphylococcus aureus (S.
aureus), and Candida albicans, (Candida a.) were incubated in broth to a
concentration of 10(9)/ml. Broth was filtered and analyzed by radioimmunoassay
for complement components C3a and C5a, thromboxane B2 (TxB), and prostaglandin
6-keto-F1 alpha (PGI) and by the limulus amebocyte lysate test (LAL) for
endotoxin. GA, % of maximum zymosan activated aggregation (% max. T), was
performed with broth, microbial filtrates, and endotoxin or normal purified human
leukocytes in HBSS. Organisms were incubated in broth (B), broth + 0.0135 mg/ml
arachidonic acid (BA), and broth + arachidonic acid + indomethacin (BAI). Broth
alone was the control (C).RESULTS: C3a, C5a, TxB, and PGI were not detectable in 
C broth or in any microbian filtrate. LAL was positive in all filtrates, but
negative in C broth. GA responses were significantly greater in E. coli (56 +/-
5% max T) and Aeromonas h. (57% +/- 8% max T) compared to S. aureus (10 +/- 5%
max T), Candida a. (14 +/- 8% max T) and C broth (1 +/- 1% max T). GA with
purified E. coli endotoxin at concentrations measured in the filtrates was not
related to the GA responses the original filtrates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 3524892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1986;8(4-5):787-91.

Blood pressure behaviour and control in Turner syndrome.

Virdis R, Cantu MC, Ghizzoni L, Ammenti A, Nori G, Volta C, Cravidi C, Vanelli M,
Balestrazzi P, Bernasconi S, et al.

Adult Turner syndrome (TS) patients frequently present hypertension. To clarify
the pathogenesis of this hypertension we examined the blood pressure (BP)
behaviour and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in 31 TS patients (2-22
years of age). BP levels were occasionally elevated in 47% of the subjects and
constantly elevated in 23%. Most of the patients were on estrogen replacement
therapy, but 26% of them presented with elevated levels since childhood. Supine
and upright plasma renin activity (PRA) values were higher in TS compared to
controls and more elevated in hypertensive TS than in the normotensive ones. At
Captopril challenge TS showed different PRA responses regardless of the karyotype
and clinical features. Patients on estrogen therapy, however, exhibited higher
increments of PRA after Captopril.CONCLUSIONS: TS patients show high frequency of
hypertension in pediatric age. Estrogen therapy is an outbreaking and worsening
factor. An estrogen independent role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system 
in the pathogenesis of TS hypertension is still uncertain.

PMID: 3530553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. Clin Physiol Biochem. 1986;4(3):199-209.

Intracellular sodium concentration and transport in red cells in essential
hypertension, hyperthyroidism, pregnancy and hypokalemia.

Gless KH, Sütterlin U, Schaz K, Schütz V, Hunstein W.

Intracellular sodium content ([Nai]), ouabain-sensitive ('Na-K ATPase') and
ouabain-insensitive ('passive permeability') sodium efflux, Na-K cotransport and 
Na-Li ('Na-Na') countertransport were estimated in erythrocytes in 39 control
subjects, 20 patients with essential hypertension, 14 patients with hypokalemia
of renal or unknown etiology, 13 hyperthyroid patients and 19 pregnant women. In 
normokalemic essential hypertension there was only a moderate, but significant
elevation of the activity of the Na-Li countertransport system. In the group of
patients with hypokalemia, there was a significant increase of [Nai],
ouabain-insensitive sodium efflux and Na-Li countertransport. In hyperthyroidism,
a marked decrease of Na-Li countertransport was associated with a marked
elevation of [Nai], in pregnancy an elevation of the Na-Li countertransport with 
a [Nai] 43% lower than the control values. The ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux
was elevated in hyperthyroidism and hypokalemia, in which [Nai] was increased. In
the control subjects there was a positive linear correlation between
ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux and [Nai]. The sodium component of the Na-K
cotransport was decreased to about one third of the unchanged
furosemide-sensitive potassium component during pregnancy.CONCLUSIONS: The
changes of cellular sodium metabolism in essential hypertension are of minor
degree as compared to those in the other conditions studied. Cellular sodium
metabolism in blood cells is influenced by thyroid hormones and metabolic
disorders. Na-Li countertransport, i.e. Na-Na countertransport, seems to be
involved in the regulation of [Nai]: an increase of its activity diminishes [Nai]
(pregnancy); a decrease elevates [Nai] (hyperthyroidism). Ouabain-sensitive
sodium efflux, i.e. 'Na-K ATPase', is mainly regulated by its substrate, [Nai].

PMID: 3011343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. Dtsch Z Verdau Stoffwechselkr. 1986;46(4):217-22.

[The development of endoscopic papillotomy in East Germany].

[Article in German]

Schentke KU, Schulz HJ.

Up to the middle of 1985 a survey of endoscopic papillotomy (EPT) had been
carried out in the GDR resulting in 3124 patients from 8 centers.INDICATIONS:
choledocholithiasis 90.6% (13.1% with a T-drain, 16.2% with a gallbladder in
situ); papillary stenosis 4.4%; tumors of the papilla 2.2%; other indications
2.2%. The common bile duct got free of stones in 89.3% of 2210 documented cases
after successful EPT. In comparison to former results in 1982, 1983 and 1984
(cumulated data) the technical success rate of EPT rose slightly, but steadily to
95.3%, and the complication rate fell to 5.8%. Bleeding was the most common
complication followed by cholangitis, pancreatitis, basket impaction and
perforation. 30 patients (0.96%) died due to complications, 14 with pancreatitis,
7 cholangitis, 7 bleeding, 2 perforation.

PMID: 3803278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Endocr Res. 1986;12(2):171-91.

Release of stored, pre-labeled growth hormone and prolactin from perifused rat
pituitary: effect of human pancreatic growth hormone-releasing factor-44.

Stachura ME, Tyler JM, Kent PG, Farmer PK.

Human pancreatic growth hormone-releasing factor-44 (hpGRF-44) differentially
stimulates release of stored and newly synthesized rGH without altering rGH
synthesis over 3 h in static in vitro incubation; hpGRF-44 also stimulates
release of stored, but not newly synthesized, rPRL. To study the time course of
pre-labeled, stored hormone release without pharmacologically interrupting
synthesis, the current experiments were performed in perifusion. Fifteen minute
pulses of 0.1 to 10 nM hpGRF-44 stimulated stored [3H]rGH release (to 890% of
base); 1.0 to 10 nM hpGRF-44 stimulated stored [3H]rPRL release (to 440% of
base). Pulses of 0.1 to 1.0 mM (Bu) 2cAMP also stimulated release of [3H]rGH (to 
570% of base) and [3H]rPRL (to 410% of base). However, peak [3H]rGH and [3H]rPRL 
responses to hpGRF-44 required 10 min, while peak responses to (Bu) 2cAMP
required 25 min. Continuous hpGRF-44 stimulated an initial surge of stored
[3H]rGH release which was not sustained; the diminishing release was not
explained by hpGRF-44 degradation. Total radioimmunoassayable (RIA) hormone
release roughly paralleled release of stored immunoprecipitable (IPn)
hormone.CONCLUSIONS: in pituitary perifusion, hpGRF-44 stimulates release of both
stored rGH and rPRL as shown in static incubation, but the response is biphasic: 
initial rapid release is followed by a progressively lesser response; and the
response is both more acute and less well sustained than that resulting from
exposure to (Bu) 2cAMP.

PMID: 3015581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Endocr Res. 1986;12(1):69-92.

Growth hormone release: interaction of increased extracellular calcium and
somatostatin.

Stachura ME.

These studies were designed to examine the effects of extracellular calcium ion
(Ca++) concentration upon basal and dibutyryl (db) cAMP or potassium ion
(K+)-stimulated release of growth hormone (GH) and to determine whether increased
extracellular Ca++ can overcome somatostatin (SRIF)-inhibited release of stored
rGH in parallel with its reported effect upon SRIF inhibition of stimulated
insulin and glucagon release. Experiments were performed in vitro using
prelabeled rat pituitary fragments in a perifusion, specific immunoprecipitation 
system designed to limit observations to release of stored hormone from viable
cells. Increased (up to 5.4 mM) extracellular Ca++ inhibits basal and
dbcAMP-stimulated release of stored, prelabeled [3H]rGH in parallel with the
effects of SRIF: post-inhibition rebound, dose responsivity, and differential
effect upon early and late dbcAMP-stimulated release of stored [3H]rGH. Increased
(21 mM) extracellular K+ interferes with both Ca++- and SRIF-inhibited early
dbcAMP-stimulated release of stored [3H]rGH. The combination of increased
extracellular Ca++ and SRIF inhibits basal release of stored [3H]rGH more than
either agent alone and during dbcAMP stimulation, rebound release of stored
[3H]rGH follows withdrawal of either inhibitor despite continuation of the other.
This rebound release is enhanced when both inhibitors are withdrawn
simultaneously.CONCLUSIONS: (a) the inhibition of stored rGH release induced by
increased extracellular Ca++ and SRIF occurs through at least partially
independent mechanisms, and (b) increased extracellular Ca++ does not reverse
SRIF inhibition of stimulated rGH release from prelabeled intracellular storage, 
in contrast with observations in the pancreatic islet.

PMID: 2870919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Haemostasis. 1986;16(2):152-8.

Enoxaparine low molecular weight heparin: its use in the prevention of deep
venous thrombosis following total hip replacement.

Planes A, Vochelle N, Ferru J, Przyrowski D, Clerc J, Fagola M, Planes M.

The effect of Enoxaparin in the prevention of thromboembolism after total hip
prosthesis has been controlled by phlebography. 228 consecutives patients were
studied with 4 dose regimens: 60 mg once a day, 40 mg once a day, and 30 and 20
mg twice a day.CONCLUSIONS: a total dose of 40 mg once a day or twice a day gives
a rate of postoperative thrombosis of 8%.

PMID: 3710293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Int J Fertil. 1986;31 SU [UPDATE]:20-30.

Arteriosclerosis risk in women and the role of oral contraceptive progestins.

Knopp RH.

Author information: 
Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

Recent studies are reviewed to develop a perspective on the risk of
arteriosclerotic heart disease occurring in women using various oral
contraceptive (OC) formulations and postmenopausal estrogens. Evidence is
provided in support of the following points: (1) arteriosclerosis risk increases 
in women after age 40 at a rate parallel to that in men; (2) arteriosclerosis
risk is related to small changes in lipoprotein concentration, specifically LDL, 
HDL, and a subfraction of HDL, HDL2; (3) OC formulations alter LDL, HDL, and HDL2
concentrations in relation to the relative biologic effects (potency) of the
estrogen and progestin components of the oral contraceptive pill, and/or the
associated androgenic effect of the progestin component, with estrogen producing 
putatively favorable changes, and progestin, unfavorable changes; and (4)
arteriosclerosis and myocardial infarction (MI) risk in young women using OC
steroids is associated with increasing progestin potency, while postmenopausal
women experience a reduced MI-related mortality and all-cause mortality, the
latter attributable in part to an increase in HDL cholesterol
concentrations.CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: It is presently advisable to screen all
subjects for hypercholesterolemia as a general measure, particularly those
subjects who are contemplating the use of OCs. This national mandate is important
in light of the data from the Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention 
Trial. This ten-year study showed that a 1% reduction in cholesterol yielded a 2%
reduction in coronary risk. Therefore, small changes in a patient's lipid profile
can have major ramifications later in life. OC steroids should be used with
circumspection by women with existing cardiovascular disease risk factors and
should be selected so as to minimize potentially adverse effects on lipoprotein
physiology.

PMID: 2899556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. J Cardiogr Suppl. 1986;(9):35-47.

[A clinicopathologic study of dilated cardiomyopathy in the aged].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohkawa S, Inoue J, Sugiura M.

This is a report of a clinicopathologic study of seven cases with dilated
cardiomyopathy (DCM) among 3,000 consecutive autopsied cases 60 years or more in 
age. In this study DCM in the aged was defined as 1) cases of refractory heart
failure with marked cardiomegaly of unknown cause by clinical and pathologic
examinations, excluding hypertensive heart disease, ischemic heart disease, and
valvular heart disease, and 2) pathologic examinations showing cardiac weight
more than 400 g, normal coronary arteries with less than 9/15 coronary stenotic
index (CSI) and a globular shaped heart with marked dilatation of the left
ventricle. The following results were obtained: Seven cases of DCM in the aged
consisted of two men and five women with an average age of 69.7 years. The
incidence was 0.23% (7/3,000 autopsies). The average age of this group was less
than those with other heart diseases such as myocardial infarction or valvular
disease in the aged.CLINICAL FINDINGS: The clinical course ranged from 3 to 22
years with a mean of 12 years. The symptoms of three of the seven cases persisted
from the middle age. Electrocardiograms showed atrial fibrillation in five cases 
(71%), left bundle branch block in three (43%) and complete heart block in one
(14%). The mean cardiothoracic ratio was 77.3%. Valvular regurgitation was
detected in five cases including five with mitral regurgitation (MR) and three
with tricuspid regurgitation (TR). All patients died of cardiac events.
Pathologic findings: The heart weights ranged from 410 g to 600 g, with an
average of 527 g, and a CSI from 1/15 to 8/15 with a mean of 4.4/15. Though five 
cases had valvular regurgitation, no primary change was observed in the
corresponding valves. Therefore, the valvular regurgitation in these cases were
attributed to secondary changes due to dilatation of the valve ring and/or
associated decreased compliance of the ventricular wall. The circumferences of
the atrioventricular valve rings were enlarged, but the semilunar valve rings
were in normal range. Bilateral atrial and ventricular volumes calculated
morphologically were larger [201 ml (normal 77 ml) and 83 ml (normal 29 ml),
respectively]. Three cases had mural thrombi, two of whom developed pulmonary
infarction. Histologically, there were three cases with the fibrosis dominant
type, two with the hypertrophy dominant type, one with the degenerative type, and
one of the mixed type, respectively.

PMID: 3760616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. J Clin Invest. 1986 Jan;77(1):228-35.

Ion transport in proximal colon of the rat. Sodium depletion stimulates neutral
sodium chloride absorption.

Foster ES, Budinger ME, Hayslett JP, Binder HJ.

The model of sodium and chloride transport proposed for the colon is based on
studies performed in the distal segment and tacitly assumes that ion transport is
similar throughout the colon. In rat distal colon, neutral sodium-chloride
absorption accounts for the major fraction of overall sodium absorption and
aldosterone stimulates electrogenic, amiloride-sensitive sodium absorption. Since
we have demonstrated qualitative differences in potassium transport in proximal
and distal segments of rat colon, unidirectional 22Na and 36Cl fluxes were
performed under short-circuit conditions across isolated proximal colon of
control and sodium-depleted rats with secondary hyperaldosteronism. In the
control group, net sodium absorption (JNanet) (7.4 +/- 0.5 mu eq/h . cm2) was
greater than Isc (1.4 +/- 0.1 mu eq/h . cm2), and JClnet was 0 in Ringer
solution. Residual flux (JR) was -5.2 +/- 0.5 mu eq/h . cm2 consistent with
hydrogen ion secretion suggesting that neutral sodium absorption may represent
sodium-hydrogen exchange. 1 mM mucosal amiloride, which inhibits sodium-hydrogen 
exchange in other epithelia, produced comparable decreases in JNanet and JR (4.1 
+/- 0.6 and 3.2 +/- 0.6 mu eq/h . cm2, respectively) without a parallel fall in
Isc. Sodium depletion stimulated JNanet, JClnet, and Isc by 7.0 +/- 1.4, 6.3 +/- 
1.9, and 0.8 +/- 0.2 mu eq/h . cm2, respectively, and 1 mM amiloride markedly
inhibited JNanet and JClnet by 6.0 +/- 1.1 and 4.0 +/- 1.6 mu eq/h . cm2,
respectively, with only a minimal reduction in Isc.CONCLUSIONS: the predominant
neutral sodium-absorptive mechanism in proximal colon is sodium-hydrogen
exchange. Sodium depletion stimulates electroneutral chloride-dependent sodium
absorption (most likely as a result of increasing sodium-hydrogen and
chloride-bicarbonate exchanges), not electrogenic chloride-independent sodium
transport. The model of ion transport in the proximal colon is distinct from that
of the distal colon.

PMCID: PMC423331
PMID: 2418060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1986;9(5):353-9.

[Intraocular penetration of collyria].

[Article in French]

Offret G, Dhermy P.

Some ophthalmic solutions activity is localized at the eye's surface: they are
used to manage conjunctivitis and keratitis. Some others must penetrate the eye. 
They are carried through the cornea. There are many factors allowing the
penetration into the cornea. These factors will be studied in this paper.
Bio-physical and bio-chemical actions are both numerous and complex.IN
CONCLUSION: the different corneal tissues have a selective solubility to
ophthalmic solution components.

PMID: 3543097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. Klin Padiatr. 1986 Jan-Feb;198(1):25-8.

[Free amino acids in the saliva of children with phenylketonuria].

[Article in German]

Liappis N, Pohl B, Weber HP, el-Karkani H.

Free amino acids were determined quantitatively in saliva of 23 children with
phenylketonuria (male = 11, female = 12) (ages 6-17 years). Saliva was
deproteinised by adding an equal volume of 5% sulphosalicylic acid and the amino 
acids were separated by ion exchange column chromatography.RESULTS: The
comparison of the amino acid concentrations in saliva of phenylketonuric children
with healthy children (male = 34, female = 31) (ages 6-13 years) showed, that
vast majority of amino acids - taurine, serine, glutamine, glycine, alanine,
citrulline, a-aminobutyric acid, valine, isoleucine, leucine, tyrosine,
phenylalanine, ornithine, lysine, delta-aminovaleric acid - were excreted
significantly lower in saliva of phenylketonuric children.

PMID: 3959486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1986;369:441-2.

[Local recurrence following surgery for breast cancer and its relation to the
primary intervention].

[Article in German]

Platthy G, Dinstl K, Härb HJ, Fischer R.

32 cases of local recurrence following curative mastectomy were operated between 
1975 and 1984. The primary operation was: radical mastectomy n = 20, simple
mastectomy n = 6, lumpectomy with axillary dissection n = 6. The rate of local
recurrence amounted to: 4.8% (20 patients out of 416) after radical mastectomy; 6
out of 15 patients after simple mastectomy (2 were N1-cases); 6 out of 15
patients after lumpectomy (one case: N1).CONCLUSION: With regard to local
recurrence radical mastectomy showed significant better results when compared
with less radical operations.

PMID: 3807561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Med Prog Technol. 1986;11(2):57-63.

Derivation of spatial information from biplane multidirectional coronary
angiograms.

Wollschläger H, Lee P, Zeiher A, Solzbach U, Bonzel T, Just H.

Modern biplane multidirectional isocentric X-ray equipment delivers the image
information necessary for spatial computations from two simultaneous
2-dimensional coronary angiographic pictures. Using the tools of analytical
geometry, the spatial position of well definable points in the fields of view of 
the two image-intensifiers can be calculated from their corresponding projections
knowing the geometrical properties of the system stands. The method developed is 
independent of the angle between the projections and is applicable even if
hemiaxial views are used. The mathematical formulas necessary for these spatial
computations are derived. By means of calculating the radiological magnification 
factor, the method was validated using a wire with known diameter as reference
object. 360-diameter measurements of the wire filmed in 18 different simultaneous
biplane projections resulted in a mean error of 3.14%. In addition, catheter
measurements of routine coronary angiograms yielded a mean diameter of 2.64 +/-
0.19 mm (mean +/- SD, real diameter 2.66 mm).CONCLUSION: Using this algorithm, a 
reliable determination of spatial coordinates of distinct points of interest is
possible as prerequisite for absolute quantitative measurements from biplane
angiograms.

PMID: 3747962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Med Prog Technol. 1986;11(1):25-32.

Left intraventricular pressure-impedance diagrams (DPZ) to assess cardiac
function. Part II: determination of end-systolic loci.

Spinelli JC, Clavin OE, Cabrera EI, Chatruc MR, Pichel RH, Valentinuzzi ME.

By means of tetrapolar intraventricular impedancimetric measurements and by
modifying the aortic impedance with a brief volume unit step afterload increase, 
with a balloon catheter, we obtained the geometric locus of the end-systolic
pressure-admittance points (PES-YES) from the beat to beat pressure-impedance
diagram (DPZ), usually three or four beats after inflation. Six experiments in
five anesthetized mongrel dogs (average weight 21.6 kg, SD 2.5) were carried out 
under control conditions and after a slow infusion (4 micrograms/kg/min) of
epinephrine to change the myocardial inotropic state. In control, the PES-YES
points fell in all cases on a straight line (average correlation 0.968, SD
0.033). After epinephrine, linearity was still good in four experiments (average 
correlation 0.938, SD 0.059). All animals showed displacements of the regression 
lines after epinephrine with respect to control. However, the direction of the
shifts was not always consistent: three dogs yielded an upward-leftward shift;
one showed a crossing point between the two regression lines with an increase in 
slope after epinephrine; in the remaining two experiments (same dog in different 
days), the post-epinephrine regression lines of the pressure-admittance
end-systolic points were displaced downwards and rightwards. Five out of the six 
experiments increased the slopes of the lines after infusion of epinephrine.IN
CONCLUSION: the method supplied the end-systolic point locus obtained from simple
cardiac catheterization and this locus was altered by inotropic intervention.

PMID: 3702828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1986;126:12-7.

Microangiography of the pancreas in experimental oedemic and haemorrhagic
pancreatitis.

Nuutinen P, Kivisaari L, Standertskjöld-Nordenstam CG, Lempinen M, Schröder T.

Microangiography of the pancreas was performed in five normal piglets and in 10
piglets with oedemic and haemorrhagic pancreatitis in order to evaluate the role 
of microcirculatory changes in experimental pancreatitis. Acute haemorrhagic
pancreatitis was induced by intraductal infusion of trypsin-taurocholate and
oedematous pancreatitis correspondingly by infusion of autologous diluted bile.
Both types of pancreatitis were confirmed by histological examination.
Microangiography of the control animals revealed well-filled arteries, arterioles
and capillaries, which formed a dense capillary network. In the areas of
histologically documented haemorrhagic pancreatitis, unfilled capillary nets were
observed as empty areas in the microangiography. Other areas of focal
extravasation of the contrast material could be seen. Arteries and arterioles
were well filled. In oedematous pancreatitis, the microangiography was unchanged 
compared with the control.CONCLUSION: Acute experimental haemorrhagic
pancreatitis is associated with severe disturbances in the capillary circulation 
of the pancreas, whereas in oedematous pancreatitis the microangiography of the
pancreas is normal.

PMID: 3494299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1986;125:165-9.

Prostaglandin protection of the human gastric mucosa against alcohol-induced
injury. Endoscopic, histologic, and functional assessment.

Tarnawski A, Hollander D, Stachura J, Klimczyk B, Mach T, Bogdal J.

We studied whether pretreatment with prostaglandin (16,16-dimethyl (dm)
prostaglandin E2) may protect the human gastric mucosa against alcohol-induced
injury. Healthy volunteers received (via an endoscope) intragastric pretreatment 
with either: A) placebo or B) 16,16 dm prostaglandin E2, 1 microgram/kg, and 15
min later 40 ml 60% alcohol was sprayed directly on gastric mucosa.STUDIES:
endoscopic appearance of the gastric mucosa was evaluated and scored (scale 0-5) 
by two investigators, gastric mucosal potential difference (PD) was continuously 
recorded, and mucosal biopsies were obtained at 30 min after alcohol for
histologic examination. Alcohol instillation in subjects pretreated with placebo 
(group A) produced within 30 min prominent endoscopic hemorrhagic lesions (grade 
4.8 +/- 0.2). Histologic examination showed exfoliation of the surface
epithelium, extensive edema of lamina propria, and deep hemorrhagic necrotic
lesions in 86% +/- 10 of specimens. These morphologic changes coincided with a
sudden drop in gastric PD of 42 mV. Prostaglandin pretreatment (group B)
significantly reduced alcohol-induced endoscopically visible lesions (grade 3.1
+/- 0.2, P less than 0.01 vs group A). Histologically, prostaglandins reduced
deep hemorrhagic erosions (4.5-fold reduction) and subepithelial hemorrhages, but
did not prevent exfoliation of the surface epithelium and gastric PD drop. Thus, 
prostaglandin administration to human volunteers effectively reduced alcohol
injury to the gastric mucosa.

PMID: 3493523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. Scand J Rehabil Med. 1986;18(2):59-63.

Wheelchair ergometer. Development of a prototype with electronic braking.

Forchheimer F, Lundberg A.

A new wheelchair ergometer is described, which compensates for the pulsating
character of the work by an automatic control system. This makes it possible to
maintain a constant level of power during wheelchair work.DESIGN: An automatic
control system has been integrated in an electronically braked bicycle ergometer,
and a pedal unit from Rodby Electronic bicycle ergometer RE 820 has been coupled 
to a modified test wheelchair. With this device, the physical working capacity
during submaximal circumstances can be tested in handicapped persons.

PMID: 3775303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Scand J Rehabil Med Suppl. 1986;15:1-55.

Gait analysis in hip and knee surgery.

Olsson E.

An objective method of gait analysis is presented. It is characterized by: Two
five metre long force plates, thus giving possibility of registering several
consecutive steps for each foot. Additional equipment has been provided and the
whole system has been computerized. Reliability was found to be great and
reproducibility good. The method has been used in registering gait variables like
time and distance variables, vertical ground reaction forces and sagittal angular
movement of hips and knees and these have been correlated to clinical findings.
The method has been used in analysis of individuals after pelvic resections
preserving the lower extremity, before and after total hip replacement, after
total knee replacement and in comparison of two different methods for THR, one
cemented (Charnley) and one non-cemented (HP Garches).RESULTS: The gait variables
most sensitive in giving evidence of a change in a patient's ambulatory status
were maximal vertical force and average velocity followed by step rate, single
limb support, and weight acceptance - all measurements of weight bearing
capacity. Maximal vertical force and average velocity were the only gait
variables that could distinguish the one type of THR from the other. In
correlations between the clinical impression of gait function and its objective
registration the strongest correlations were found in maximal vertical force and 
average velocity. Thus, gait analysis is considered a useful tool in the
evaluation of locomotor function after surgical procedures.

PMID: 3467423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Soc Sci Med. 1986;22(11):1229-34.

The place of primary health care in a comprehensive health system.

Yamamoto M.

In considering the place of Primary Health Care in a comprehensive health system,
we must first consider what is meant by the term 'comprehensive'. Comprehensive
systems take into account all phases of life from infancy to old age, and
integrate all aspects of being, including physical, psychological, mental,
social, environmental, political and so on. It is the task of those who deliver
the primary health care system to evaluate and prioritize health needs in
specific populations, and to implement programs which honor the community's
unique priorities, taking into account all phases and aspects of life. Drawing
upon data collected from a comprehensive field survey of community health
activities in Hiketa, in Kagawa Prefecture in Shikoku, and other similar surveys 
carried out in Japan, as well as references such as the Report of the
International Conference on Primary Health Care (Alma Ata), and the World Health 
Organization Global Strategy for Health for All by the Year 2000, this background
paper will outline the critical aspects to be considered in implementation of
primary health care in comprehensive health systems, as a context for further
discussion. Aspects to be considered are as follows: Community representation and
participation Evaluation of health needs Prioritization of health
needsIMPLEMENTATION: consultation with specialists
IMPLEMENTATION: utilization of local resources
IMPLEMENTATION: health education
IMPLEMENTATION: support of local government
IMPLEMENTATION: co-ordination of laymen, specialists, officials and others
Evaluation Follow through. Illustrative examples will be used to highlight
problems and solutions as each aspects is considered.

PMID: 3749952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Spat Vis. 1986;1(4):305-18.

Form from motion parallax and form from luminance contrast: vernier
discrimination.

Regan D.

Author information: 
Department of Ophthalmology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada.

Some objects are perfectly camouflaged when stationary, but are clearly visible
when moving; the boundaries of such an object are defined entirely by motion
parallax. Little is known about the eye's ability to make spatial discriminations
between motion-defined objects. In this study, subjects viewed a pseudo-random
pattern of dots within which a camouflaged bar was made visible by relative
motion of dots. Vernier acuity for the motion-defined bar was 27-45 sec arc for
three subjects, much less than the interdot separation of 360 sec arc, much less 
than the 2 deg receptive field size for motion, and comparable with the foveal
intercone separation of 30 sec arc. It is proposed that an opponent-orientation
process and an opponent-position process can both contribute to vernier
judgements for motion-defined objects. Real-world motion contrast commonly
confounds the following cues for figure-ground segregation: (1) different texture
velocities on either side of the figure's boundary; (2) in any given time
interval, texture in figure and ground moves different distances; and (3) texture
continually appears and disappears along the figure's boundary. When cues (2) and
(3) were eliminated, thus ensuring figure-ground segregation was achieved
entirely by motion-sensitive neural elements, vernier acuity was 44 +/- 5 sec arc
compared with 36 +/- 8 sec arc for a dotted bar defined by luminance
contrast.CONCLUSION: Vernier acuity for a dotted bar whose boundary was defined
entirely by motion-sensitive neural elements was similar to vernier acuity for a 
dotted bar whose boundary was defined by luminance contrast.

PMID: 3153787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1986 Jan-Feb;11(1):6-13.

Posterior strut fusions to enhance immediate postoperative cervical stability.

Whitehill R, Wilhelm CE, Moskal JT, Kramer SJ, Ruch WW.

In an attempt to enhance the immediate stability of posterior interspinous fusion
constructs, the authors conducted the following project. Twenty-four adult
mongrel dogs underwent a posterior C4-C5 fusion using iliac crest autogenous
graft and internal fixation using either ulna struts (12) or metallic struts (12)
fixed into position by sublaminar wires. Half of the animals were killed at
either 1 week or 3 months postoperatively, and their C4-C5 motion segments were
excised and studied radiologically, mechanically, and histologically. Both
fusions created immediate and 3-month stability equivalent or superior to normal 
C4-C5 canine spinal segments. However, three dogs were rendered completely and
two dogs incompletely quadriplegic by the surgery.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Because of 
the relatively high rate of neurologic injury associated with these procedures in
normal dogs, the authors hesitate to endorse their use in all but complete
quadriplegic patients.

PMID: 3704785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1986;167(1-2):197-204.

[Aspects of tuberculosis control in the Republic of Nicaragua].

[Article in German]

Willroth PO.

In the years of Somoza-dictatorship the number of cases with tuberculosis
important by increased and the fight against tuberculosis was not efficacious.
After the revolutionary triumph under direction of the Sandinista National
Liberation Front on 19. July 1979 control of tuberculosis was founded with
following main points: BCG-vaccination, detection of patients with smear-positive
tuberculosis, bacteriological supervision of chemotherapy and examination of
contact persons. Annual risk of infection is actual more than 1%. In the present 
time USA-administration violates permanently national sovereignty of Nicaragua
with disadvantage for control of tuberculosis.CONCLUSION: Supports and peace for 
the Republic of Nicaragua.

PMID: 3490063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Z Exp Chir Transplant Kunstliche Organe. 1986;19(1):21-7.

[Entero-gastric reflux after distal stomach resection--an animal experiment
study].

[Article in German]

Vara-Thorbeck C, Martinez P, Plata J, Nuñez de Castro I.

The experiments were carried out in 125 Wistar rats. The entero-gastric reflux
was estimated quantitatively with reference to the bilirubin and the cholic acid 
(radiolabeled by C 14). The animals were submitted to distal partial gastrectomy 
in groups after Billroth I operation, after Billroth II operation with and
without enteroanastomosis, as well as Billroth II operation with
enteroanastomosis and vagotomy.RESULTS: The statistical difference was
significant between Billroth I and Billroth II operation with clear smaller
reflux in Billroth I. The added enteroanastomosis decreased or increased the
reflux of some animals at a time. The additional vagotomy reduced the number of
the anastomotic ulcer.

PMID: 3962398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Z Kardiol. 1986;75 Suppl 5:47-55.

[Are anti-arrhythmia agents superior to a beta blocker in treating
life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias? Preliminary results of a controlled
study].

[Article in German]

Steinbeck G, Andresen D, von Leitner ER.

The results of serial electrophysiologic testing in patients with sustained
ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation indicate that if the
arrhythmia is suppressible with antiarrhythmic drugs, the prognosis is better
than when arrhythmias continue to be inducible despite antiarrhythmic drug
treatment. Whether electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic drug therapy
improves outcome or merely selects groups of patients with good and bad
prognosis, is not known. To answer this question, a prospective randomized trial 
was conducted with 166 patients (sustained ventricular tachycardia n = 84;
primary ventricular fibrillation n = 46; syncope n = 36). When the arrhythmia was
inducible by programmed stimulation during control, patients were allocated to
receive either electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic drug therapy (group
I), or metoprolol (daily dose up to 200 mg) without invasive testing (group II). 
Patients with non-inducible arrhythmias were also treated with metoprolol (group 
III).RESULTS: During a follow-up of 10 +/- 8 (SD) months, there were arrhythmia
recurrences in 30 patients, and sudden cardiac death in 17. Follow-up did not
differ between group I (n = 59) and group II (n = 53). There was a tendency for
the outcome to be better in patients of group III (n = 54) than in those of group
II (Log-rank test p = 0.057). In group I, patients whose arrhythmias became
suppressed did much better during follow-up than those with still inducible
arrhythmias (p less than 0.0001). Thus, while invasive testing is a good
predictor of outcome, electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic drug therapy
is not better than a beta blocker in patients with sustained ventricular
tachyarrhythmias.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2435071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Thromb Res. 1985 Dec 15;40(6):793-805.

Influence of the thromboxane antagonist BM 13.177 on the arachidonic acid-induced
increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and permeability in rabbit lungs.

Seeger W, Ernst C, Walmrath D, Neuhof H, Roka L.

In blood-free perfused isolated rabbit lungs increased availability of free
arachidonic acid (AA), whether exogenously applied or released from the
endogenous membrane phospholipid pool after different stimuli, causes an acute
pulmonary artery pressor response and an increase in vascular permeability.
Previous experiments suggested that the vasoconstriction is caused primarily by
the cyclooxygenase product thromboxane (Tx) A2, whereas an increase in the
capillary filtration coefficient must be ascribed to non-cyclooxygenase products 
of AA. The influence of BM 13.177, a non-prostanoic antagonist of TxA2- and
endoperoxide-effects in platelets, on the AA-induced vascular effects in isolated
rabbit lungs was investigated. BM 13.177 dose-dependently inhibited the pressor
responses evoked by repetitive direct application of AA (IC50 approximately
10(-6) M) or by repetitive stimulation of endogenous AA-release with the
calcium-ionophore A 23187 (IC50 approximately 10(-7) M), with maximum reduction
of the pressor responses to less than 15%. The generation of TxA2 and of
prostaglandin (PG) I2 evoked by these stimuli was, however, not altered. At a
concentration of 10(-5) M BM 13.177 did not influence the capillary filtration
coefficient, measured during venous pressure challenge, under baseline conditions
and after stimulation with AA in presence of indomethacin.CONCLUSION: BM 13.177
acts as TxA2/endoperoxide antagonist with dose-dependent inhibition of AA-induced
vasoconstriction in the pulmonary vascular bed.

PMID: 3937288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. J Steroid Biochem. 1985 Dec;23(6B):1123-7.

Chemotherapy with or without tamoxifen in postmenopausal patients with late
breast cancer. A randomized study.

Boccardo F, Rubagotti A, Rosso R, Santi L.

Eighty-one patients with advanced measurable breast cancer were randomized to
receive only chemotherapy (Group C) or the same chemotherapy + tamoxifen (Group
CH). The chemotherapeutic regimen was based on the cyclic administration of two
noncross-resistant cytotoxic combinations: CMFV (cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2 i.v.,
days 1 and 5; methotrexate, 20 mg/m2 i.v., days 1 and 4; 5-fluorouracil 325 mg/m2
i.v., days 1-5; vincristine 0.75 mg/m2 i.v., days 2 and 5) and AC (adriamycin 40 
mg/m2 i.v., day 1; cyclophosphamide 200 mg/m2 i.v., days 3-5) every 4-5 weeks.
Tamoxifen (10 mg) was given twice daily continuously. The treatment results were 
as follows in Groups C and CH, respectively: PD 19.4 and 6.3%, SD 38.9 and 18.7%,
PR 27.8 and 56.2% and CR 13.9 and 18.7%. The difference in response (CR + PR)
rate observed between the two treatment groups was highly significant (P less
than 0.025). Median time to progression was 10.6 months in Group C and 17.2
months in Group CH (NS). Median duration of survival was 20 and 34 months,
respectively (NS).IN CONCLUSION: the addition of tamoxifen to chemotherapy
significantly improved the results in terms of response rate and duration of
responses. A significant benefit to short-term survival was also evident.

PMID: 3912616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1985 Dec;17(6):695-700.

Left ventricular hypertrophy in athletes: an exercise-echocardiographic study.

Cohen JL, Segal KR.

Left ventricular dimensions measured by M-mode echocardiography of 10 distance
runners and 10 wrestlers were compared to 10 sedentary controls at rest and
during 12 min of semisupine, graded bicycle ergometer exercise. At rest, runners 
and wrestlers demonstrated greater left ventricular mass compared to controls
(mean values, 311.8 and 325.9 vs 215.9 g, respectively: P less than 0.05). In
wrestlers, this was due to increased left ventricular septal (13.5 mm) and
posterior wall thickness (12.9 mm) compared to controls (9.1 and 10.1 mm,
respectively: P less than 0.05). In runners, this was due to increased left
ventricular end-diastolic dimension (55.8 mm) compared to controls (49.7 mm) (P
less than 0.05). During exercise, the different patterns noted at rest among the 
three groups in left ventricular dimensions and function persisted and were
preserved: runners maintained a higher end-diastolic dimension compared to
wrestlers and controls and greater shortening dimension compared to wrestlers.
Absolute changes in left ventricular parameters from rest to exercise were not
significantly different among the three groups.CONCLUSIONS: 1) different patterns
of left ventricular hypertrophy exist among different types of athletes, with
mainly increased wall thickness in primarily statically trained athletes and
increased volume in dynamically trained athletes; and 2) these differences
observed at rest persist during moderate-intensity, semisupine ergometer exercise
and have direct functional significance, thereby emphasizing the differences
found in cardiac dimensions among different types of athletes.

PMID: 4079742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Dec;37(12):2837-46.

[A study on spinal anesthesia for cesarean section--with special reference to
left uterus displacement device (LUDD)].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto N.

In this study, 303 cases of cesarean section by spinal anesthesia with the
application of LUDD were studied to find the relationships between induction to
delivery time (I-D time) and Apgar score (Ap-S), level of anesthesia and changes 
in maternal circulation and also to observe changes in feto-maternal acid base
status, feto-maternal CO2 metabolism monitored with an Anesthesia & Brain
activity Monitor (ABM) and post anesthesia complications.RESULTS: The use of LUDD
as a prophylactic measure to prevent maternal hypotension was very effective. The
elevation of anesthesia level always involved the risk of maternal hypotension
even when the LUDD was used. A slight drop in blood pressure during the short
period before the infant was delivered did not adversely affect the AP-S, but
prolonged I-D time did affect the clinical condition of the infant and probably
promoted acidosis. Administration of 100% O2 induced mild maternal acidosis but, 
for the short period before delivery, the fetal oxygenation and CO2 metabolism
were smooth with reduced acidosis. Since there was a close correlation between
maternal PECO2 and PaCO2 and PCO2 of the maternal blood (MA, MV) and umbilical
blood (UA, UV) were also correlated, the continuous monitoring of PECO2 with an
ABM was deemed to be very useful in anesthesia for cesarean section. In the 303
cases studied, a case of headache was the only post-anesthesia complication.

PMID: 4086910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Dec;37(12):2775-83.

[Production of monoclonal antibodies to ferritin and development of the
enzymeimmunoassay system].

[Article in Japanese]

Nozawa S, Tsukazaki K, Narisawa S.

A sandwich enzymeimmunoassay (EIA) system for serum ferritin was developed by
newly obtained monoclonal antibodies to human placental ferritin (HPF). And serum
ferritin values in 3 groups (normal control, normal pregnant women and
gynecological cancer patients groups) were measured. These values were compared
with those measured by the conventional sandwich EIA system, in which human liver
ferritin (HLF) and conventional polyclonal antibody to HLF were used as standard 
substance and horseradish peroxidase (HRPO) conjugated antibodies,
respectively.RESULTS: The high coefficient of correlation of ferritin values
between the new monoclonal assay and conventional assay indicated that this
monoclonal assay system was useful in measuring serum ferritin. The distribution 
of the ferritin value in the normal control was 84.5 +/- 26.6ng/ml. The peak
ferritin value in 136 normal pregnant women was found around the early second
trimester. The serum ferritin value in 184 women with cancer usually exceeded the
upper limit or normal range and some of them were more than 1000ng/ml. These
results indicate that ferritin was a useful marker for cancer. When the
correlation curve of the cancer group was compared with that of the normal
control, it appeared that the assay system using HPF as the standard substance
might be useful in correcting the false negative which the conventional assay
system using HLF for the standard failed to pick up in the measurement of acidic 
ferritin (HPF or cancer ferritin).

PMID: 3910740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Dec;59(12):1051-8.

[Muscle exercise after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction of the
knee--Part II: The development of the exercise method by simultaneous isometric
contraction of the quadriceps and the hamstrings, and its biomechanics].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasuda K, Sasaki T, Shirado O, Yagi T, Monji J.

An attempt was made to investigate the stress of the ACL in the simultaneous
isometric contraction (IMC) of the quadriceps and the hamstrings by means of
analysis of two-dimensional models, and to estimate electromyographically the
forces of those muscles in that contraction. The anterior drawer force (ADF) in
the simultaneous IMC decreased as the flexion angle of the knee increased. The
average value of the angles, where the ADF became zero, was 7.4 degrees. The
integrated EMGs of the quadriceps and the hamstrings in the simultaneous maximum 
IMC were equal to 30-60% of those in separate maximum IMC.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In 
the early stage of the rehabilitation after the ACL reconstruction, the
simultaneous IMC of the quadriceps and the hamstrings is useful as one of the
muscle exercise method, because that can be performed at the knee position near
the full extension and can generate sufficient muscle force for exercise.

PMID: 3834016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Dec;59(12):1041-9.

[Muscle exercise after the anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction of the
knee--Part I: The force given to the anterior cruciate ligament by separate
isometric contraction of the quadriceps or the hamstrings].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasuda K, Sasaki T, Shirado O, Yagi T, Monji J.

An attempt was made to investigate the force of the anterior cruciate ligament
(ACL) in separate isometric contraction (IMC) of the quadriceps and the
hamstrings by means of the analysis of two-dimensional models. In IMC of the
quadriceps, the average value of the anterior drawer force (ADF) was equal to 14%
of the quadriceps tension at the knee flexion of 5 degrees. The ADF decreased as 
the flexion angle increased. The average value of the angles, where the ADF
became zero, was 45.3 degrees, and the standard deviation was 12.5 degrees. In
IMC of the hamstrings, the posterior drawer force was given at the every flexion 
angle.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In the early stage of the rehabilitation after the ACL 
reconstruction, the quadriceps exercise by IMC should be performed at the knee
flexion of more than 70 degrees (average + 1.96 X S.D.). The hamstrings exercise 
by IMC can be carried out regardless of flexion angle.

PMID: 3834015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Biochem Pharmacol. 1985 Nov 15;34(22):4025-31.

Comparison of the membrane-related effects of cytarabine and other agents on
model membranes.

Koehler KA, Hines J, Mansour EG, Rustum YM, Jahagirdar DV, Jain MK.

The membrane-associated effects of a series of chemotherapeutic and other drugs
were examined via differential scanning calorimetry and by their modulation of
the action of porcine phospholipase A2 (PLA2) on bilayer substrates. The drugs
examined included: cytarabine, amino-glycoside antibiotics, adriamycin,
dibucaine, butacaine, and VP-16. The bilayers employed were phase-separated
ternary lipid mixtures containing dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine:
palmitoyllysolecithin: and either hexadecanoic acid (fatty acid ternary mixture) 
or hexadecanol (alcohol ternary mixture). Effects of the more hydrophilic drugs
(cytarabine and aminoglycoside antibiotics) on the calorimetric profiles of the
negatively charged (fatty acid-containing) and the neutral
(hexadecanol-containing) ternary lipid mixtures indicate that the interaction of 
these drugs with biomembranes is likely to be dominated by electrostatic
interactions. All of the drugs investigated, including the more hydrophobic
adriamycin, dibucaine, butacaine, and VP-16, affected the phase equilibrium in
the membrane and exhibited apparent noncompetitive inhibition of the action of
PLA2 on bilayers composed of ternary lipid substrates. In addition, cytarabine
inhibited fusion of fatty acid-containing ternary mixtures.CONCLUSIONS: These
drug:membrane interactions leading to a shift in the phase equilibria were
apparently regiospecific. Hydrophilic drug:membrane interactions included an
important electrostatic component. The effects of all of the drugs employed in
this study on the action of PLA2 on a bilayer substrate (fatty acid-containing
ternary lipid mixture) are hypothesized to be a result of the drug-mediated shift
in phase equilibria away from the optimally active phase distribution. As a
result, PLA2 binds with normal affinity to the membrane, but its membrane
substrate is not catalytically turned over. It is evident that these drugs can
directly affect cellular homeostasis in a manner that can show a dependence on
the nature of the membrane surface.

PMID: 4062974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1985 Nov;78(12):1769-78.

[Cost/efficacy ratio in the diagnosis of coronary disease. Bayes' analysis by
computer: respective role of the exercise test, isotopic methods and
coronarography].

[Article in French]

Machecourt J, Reboud JP, Comet M, Wolf JE, Fagret D, Bourlard P, Denis B.

Between January 1983 and May 1984, 104 patients with no known cardiac pathology
were referred by their cardiologist for diagnosis of chest pain. They all
underwent coronary angiography which was used as the reference investigation and 
the following sequential Bayes' analysis was performed. The percentage
probability of coronary artery disease was estimated from clinical date (age,
sex, characteristics of the chest pain subdivided into 3 groups); an exercise ECG
was performed in all cases (classified as positive, negative or non diagnostic); 
if the probability of coronary artery disease was greater than 95% (or less than 
5%) after exercise stress testing the patients was diagnosed as having (or not
having) coronary artery disease. If the probability was between 6 and 94% the
patient underwent Thallium myocardial scintigraphy (Thallium dipyridamole;
analysis on a colour television screen); the coronary risk probability before
Thallium was that calculated after exercise stress testing. If after myocardial
scintigraphy the coronary risk remained between 6 and 94%, an exercise
angioscintigraphy was performed and interpreted in the same way. The clinical and
complementary date was analysed on a mini-computer, the values of the sensitivity
and specificity of the tests used for the calculation of the probability of
coronary artery disease were those previously published by our group.RESULTS:
31/88 (35%) of patients were classified in the 5% risk groups after exercise
stress testing (24 coronary artery disease; 7 normals: no errors of
classification). Fifty six out of the 88 patients (65%) were classified in the 5%
risk group after myocardial scintigraphy (42 patients with coronary artery
disease with 41 abnormal coronary angiographies and 14 normal patients, all of
whom had normal coronary angiographies; this represents a 1.8% divergence of
classification compared with coronary angiography). Angioscintigraphy only
classified 3 of the remaining patients, one wrongly, and did not seem to be
useful diagnostically as a third-line investigation after Thallium scintigraphy
or as a second-line investigation instead of Thallium scintigraphy. This strategy
is less costly than carrying out coronary angiography systematically in these
patients: if diagnostic coronary angiography is performed alone in patients with 
a risk of 6 to 94% the cost is 4 800 FF vs 10 400 FF per patient; if coronary
angiography is performed in all patients in whom coronary artery disease is
possible or certain (all patients with a risk of over 5%), the cost is 8 400 FF
vs 10 400 FF per patient, a saving of 20%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3936425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Encephale. 1985 Nov-Dec;11(6):263-5.

[Never treated schizophrenic patients have no abnormal movements such as tardive 
dyskinesia].

[Article in French]

Chorfi M, Moussaoui D.

Tardive dyskinesia, described for the first time in 1957, have increased in
frequency since neuroleptics started to be widely used. Is that disorder drug
induced, or related to the psychosis, or does it exist in the general population,
caused by others factors? This study is a trial in the approach of the
problem.METHODOLOGY: the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia was rated for three
kinds of populations which are schizophrenics never treated by neuroleptics;
schizophrenics under treatment by neuroleptics; general population non psychotic 
and never treated by neuroleptics. Diagnostic criteria of schizophrenia are DSM
III ones. Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scales of NIMH have been used in this
work. The percentage is 14% in schizophrenics already treated by neuroleptics,
and no one in the other two groups had dyskinesia. The middle duration of the
illness in the schizophrenics group was about 12 months. Those results allow us
to eliminate possible spontaneous dyskinesia in the general population which is
young; to suppose that there is probably no responsibility of the psychosis in
this disorder, at least at the beginning of the illness; to confirm that
neuroleptic medication, alone or associated with other factors, is responsible
for the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia.

PMID: 2869939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Hum Toxicol. 1985 Nov;4(6):563-72.

Metabolism of an industrial uranium trioxide dust after deposition in the rat
lung.

Stradling GN, Stather JW, Ellender M, Sumner SA, Moody JC, Towndrow CG, Hodgson
A, Sedgwick D, Cooke N.

Uranium trioxide, produced industrially, was administered to rats either by
inhalation or direct injection of an aqueous suspension into the lungs.THE
RESULTS: show that uranium was cleared rapidly from the lungs, mainly to the
blood; show that distribution of uranium among body tissues, and the fraction of 
the systemic content excreted in urine, was similar to that obtained for other
transportable hexavalent uranium compounds; suggest that urine monitoring data
would be of more value than lung radioactivity counting measurements for
assessing occupational human exposure; indicate that for setting exposure limits 
by inhalation the uranium trioxide should be considered a highly transportable
compound. Thus intakes by workers should be restricted to those recommended for
short-term exposures and not those based on an annual limit.

PMID: 4077068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1546. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1985 Nov;6(5):1004-10.

Reversal of rest myocardial asynergy during exercise: a radionuclide
scintigraphic study.

Kimchi A, Rozanski A, Fletcher C, Maddahi J, Swan HJ, Berman DS.

While exercise-induced segmental left ventricular wall motion abnormalities are
well described, the phenomenon of improvement in certain asynergic segments
during exercise in some patients remains a curiosity. To assess this unexpected
finding, results were analyzed in 85 patients with wall motion abnormalities at
rest who underwent two view (45 degrees left anterior oblique and anterior)
exercise radionuclide ventriculography and exercise thallium-201 myocardial
perfusion imaging. Wall motion was scored with a 5 point system (from 3 [normal] 
to - 1 [dyskinesia]); normalization or increase of 2 or more points with exercise
signified improvement. Forty-eight patients (56%) had no change or further
deterioration of wall motion at peak exercise, 15 (18%) showed both improvement
of wall motion and deterioration and 22 (26%) showed only improvement of wall
motion. Wall motion improvement during exercise was found in 57 (20%) of 279
segments with asynergy at rest. Of these 57 segments improving with exercise, 45 
(79%) showed mild and 12 (21%) showed severe asynergy at rest. Only seven
segments (12%) were associated with pathologic Q waves. Thallium-201 perfusion
was normal in 44 segments (77%) while only 6 segments (11%) had reversible and
only 7 (12%) had nonreversible thallium-201 defects.IN CONCLUSION: 1) wall motion
that is abnormal at rest can sometimes improve with exercise; 2) this phenomenon 
generally occurs in zones without a Q wave or nonreversible thallium-201 defect. 
Hence, segments with abnormal wall motion at rest that show improvement with
exercise appear to represent viable nonischemic segments.

PMID: 4045024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1985 Nov-Dec;7(6):1198-204.

Adrenergic and dopaminergic properties of dopamine sulfoconjugates.

Kyncl JJ, Buckner SA, Brondyk H, Kerkman DJ, DeBernardis JF, Bush EN, Kuchel O.

The 3- and 4-sulfate esters of dopamine (DA-3-SO4 and DA-4-SO4, respectively),
the two main metabolites of DA, were evaluated for potential intrinsic or
indirect catecholaminergic activities. Both compounds lacked any appreciable
affinities for alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, beta 2 and DA-2 receptors. In the
superfused [3H]norepinephrine-preloaded dog saphenous vein, both dopamine
sulfates were devoid of any intrinsic inhibitory activity such as observed with
dopamine pre- and postsynaptically. In addition, they did not displace the
labeled vesicular neurotransmitter as did dopamine. In anesthetized dogs the two 
compounds failed to stimulate either the dopaminergic receptors (DA-1) of
mesenteric vascular beds or the adrenergic receptors mediating the vasodilatory
and pressor responses to dopamine.CONCLUSION: In our experimental conditions
DA-3-SO4 and DA-4-SO4, the products of dopamine sulfoconjugation, lacked any
demonstrable intrinsic affinity and/or efficacy on the dopaminergic and
adrenergic receptors directly or indirectly through their metabolic
transformation or through displacement of endogenous neurotransmitter.

PMID: 2418311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Kidney Int. 1985 Nov;28(5):814-22.

Norepinephrine-related mechanism in hypertension accompanying renal failure.

Schohn D, Weidmann P, Jahn H, Beretta-Piccoli C.

Various blood pressure (BP)-regulating factors were assessed before and after 4
weeks of selective norepinephrine (NE) inhibition with the sympathetic neurone
blocker, debrisoquine, in nine hypertensive, nine normotensive hemodialysis
patients (HDP), and 11 normal subjects. On placebo, hypertensive HDP had an
increased total blood volume (P less than 0.05) and exchangeable sodium (P less
than 0.001), while both HDP groups had increased (P less than 0.05) plasma
clearances of NE and angiotensin II (AII), and tended to have higher basal plasma
NE, renin, and AII levels, and lower BP responses to NE or AII than normal
subjects. Plasma epinephrine and the chronotropic dose of isoproterenol (CDI) did
not differ significantly among groups. Debrisoquine lowered supine BP markedly in
hypertensive HDP (on average from 181/107 to 148/88 mm Hg) and slightly in
normotensive HDP (143/78 to 131/76 mm Hg), but not in normal subjects (116/74 to 
120/79 mm Hg). In all groups, plasma NE, CDI, and NE pressor dose were reduced in
parallel (by 35 to 75%; P less than 0.05 to less than 0.001), and the relation
between stepwise increasing plasma NE and BP changes during NE infusion was
commensurably displaced to the left (P less than 0.01). The remaining parameters 
were not changed consistently.CONCLUSION: HDP, as normal subjects, respond to
decreased sympathetic outflow with increased alpha- and beta-receptor
sensitivity. Hypertension in HDP depends strongly on a NE-related mechanism. The 
latter seems to complement renin-angiotensin, sodium and fluid volume in the
pathogenesis of high BP.

PMID: 4087696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1549. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Nov;37(11):2300-8.

[Studies on RIA of 16 alpha-hydroxyestrone and its clinical application].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeshita H.

16 alpha-hydroxyestrone (16 alpha-OH-E1) is an important intermediary metabolite 
in the biosynthetic pathway leading to estriol. No established routine method has
been published to measure this steroid in the organism. A new RIA 16 alpha-OH-E1 
method was developed and by using this method some interesting clinical data were
obtained.METHOD: Rabbits were immunized with 16 alpha-OH-E1-3-CME-BSA to produce 
its antiserum. 16 alpha-OH-E1-3H was synthesized by incubating estrone-3H with
the human fetal liver preparation and NADPH. As samples, peripheral blood of
pregnant women, umbilical artery blood (UA), umbilical vein blood (UV) and
amniotic fluid were collected. To each sample, 1000 dpm of 16 alpha-OH-E1-3H was 
added as a tracer, extracted with ether, and the extract was separated on TLC and
LH-20. The 16 alpha-OH-E1 fraction was collected and used for RIA.
RESULTS: The 16 alpha-OH-E1 levels (ng/ml) in peripheral maternal blood of normal
gestation before 11 weeks, 12-23 weeks, 24-36 weeks and after 37 weeks were 0.98 
+/- 0.07 (mean +/- S.E.), 2.42 +/- 0.30, 4.76 +/- 0.42 and 5.49 +/- 0.98,
respectively. A significant increase in the steroid titer was observed as
gestational weeks advanced.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4078421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Acta Physiol Scand. 1985 Oct;125(2):181-94.

Influence of temperature on stimulus-secretion coupling in the sympathetic nerves
and on neuromuscular transmission, in guinea-pig vas deferens.

Stjärne L, Alberts P.

In guinea-pig isolated vas deferens moderate cooling (within the range 16-41
degrees C) improved, while further cooling depressed, sympathetic neuromuscular
transmission. Moderate cooling: (a) enhanced the contractile responses both to
electrical nerve stimulation and (although less strongly) to exogenous
noradrenaline or to the adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) analogue, alpha,
beta-methylene ATP; (b) enhanced the overflow of [3H]noradrenaline evoked by
electrical nerve stimulation at 1-8 Hz, but not that caused by direct
depolarization of varicosities with 80 mM potassium; (c) reduced the depressing
effect of exogenous noradrenaline, as well as the enhancing effect of the
alpha-adrenoceptor blocking agent phentolamine, on the secretory responses to
electrical nerve stimulation; (d) while not altering the maximal secretion of
tracer noradrenaline at infinitely high frequency or external calcium, lowered
the frequency or calcium concentration required for half-maximal secretion, both 
in the absence and in the presence of phentolamine.IN CONCLUSION: moderate
cooling improves sympathetic neuromuscular transmission in guinea-pig vas
deferens, both prejunctionally, by enhancing transmitter secretion, and
post-junctionally, by increasing the responsiveness of the smooth muscle to
transmitter.

PMID: 2866659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Diabetes. 1985 Oct;34(10):1019-24.

Intratesticular islet allografts in the spontaneously diabetic BB/W rat.

Selawry H, Fajaco R, Whittington K.

Thirty-three male BB/W rats with diabetes of 11-145 days duration were divided
into 3 groups: six received abdominal, intratesticular islet allografts and no
immunosuppression posttransplantation; 15 were similarly grafted and in addition 
were given four injections of ALS regularly at 10-day intervals for 30 days after
transplantation; and 12 rats received scrotal, intratesticular islet allografts
and four injections of ALS.THE RESULTS: in the absence of immunosuppression all
six of the rats with abdominal, intratesticular islet allografts became
normoglycemic within 2 days after transplantation but in none did graft survival 
exceed 17 days; a marked prolongation of graft survival of greater than 65-441
days occurred in 13 of the 15 animals with identical intratesticular allografts; 
sustained immunosuppression was not needed for prolonged islet allograft survival
in rats with cryptorchid islet allografts; and (4) only one of the 12 rats with
scrotal, intratesticular allografts became normoglycemic whereas 11 remained
severely glycosuric. However, on surgical translocation of the grafted testes
from the scrotum into the abdominal cavity, the rats promptly became
normoglycemic in the absence of any additional therapy.

PMID: 2864296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 Oct;12(10):2052-60.

[A comparative study of 5'-DFUR and tegafur in recurrent breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Taguchi T, Terasawa T, Abe O, Yoshida Y, Tominaga T, Ogawa N.

A comparative study was performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 5'-DFUR 
and tegafur in recurrent breast cancer. The oral daily dosage of 5'-DFUR was
1,200 mg and that of tegafur was 800 mg, both drugs being administered every day 
for more than 4 weeks.RESULTS: Cases evaluable for anti-tumor effect were 50 with
5'-DFUR and 38 with tegafur. The response rate was 28.0% (14/50) with 5'-DFUR
while that with tegafur was 15.8% (6/38). In the cases with no prior fluorinated 
pyrimidine therapy, 5'-DFUR was significantly superior to tegafur in the response
rate. Effective cases determined within 8 weeks numbered 9 out of 50 cases with
5'-DFUR, showing a tendency to be more than those of tegafur, 1 out of 38 cases. 
This indicates that the appearance of response for 5'-DFUR seems to be faster.
The duration of PR tended to be longer with 5'-DFUR than with tegafur. As for the
safety, there was no difference between the two groups except for a high
incidence of diarrhea in 5'-DFUR. 5'-DFUR tended to be superior to tegafur in its
usefulness judged from the angles of efficacy and safety. From the above results,
5'-DFUR can be regarded as having a better efficacy than tegafur for the
treatment of recurrent breast cancer, with a fast-appearing anti-tumor effect and
a long durability for continuous treatment.

PMID: 2932060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1985 Oct;11(10):1759-63.

Adjuvant chemo- and hormonal therapy in locally advanced breast cancer: a
randomized clinical study.

Schaake-Koning C, van der Linden EH, Hart G, Engelsman E.

Between 1977 and 1980, 118 breast cancer patients with locally advanced disease, 
T3B-4, any N, M0 or T1-3, tumor positive axillary apex biopsy, were randomized to
one of three arms: I: radiotherapy (RT) to the breast and adjacent lymph node
areas; II: RT followed by 12 cycles of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5
fluorouracil (CMF) and tamoxifen during the chemotherapy period; III: 2 cycles of
adriamycin and vincristine (AV), alternated with 2 cycles of CMF, then RT,
followed by another 4 cycles of AV, alternated with 4 CMF; tamoxifen during the
entire treatment period. The median follow-up period was 5 1/2 years. The
adjuvant chemo- and hormonal therapy did not improve the overall survival; the
5-year survival was 37% for all three treatment arms. There was no statistically 
significant difference in RFS between the three modalities, nor when arm I was
compared to arm II and III together, p = 0.11. Local recurrence (LR) was observed
in 24 of the 86 patients (28%) who had reached complete remission (CR). LR was
not statistically different over the three treatment arms. In 18 of the 24
patients with LR, distant metastases appeared within a few months from the local 
recurrence. In arm III, the CR rate after 4 cycles AV plus CMF and RT hardly
changed after another 8 cycles of chemotherapy. The menopausal status did not
influence the treatment results. Dose reduction in more than 4 cycles of
chemotherapy was accompanied by better results, p = 0.04.IN CONCLUSION: adjuvant 
chemo- and hormonal therapy did not improve RFS and overall survival. These
findings do not support the routine use of adjuvant chemo- and endocrine therapy 
for inoperable breast cancer.

PMID: 3840149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Jpn J Pharmacol. 1985 Oct;39(2):123-30.

A comparative study on the effects of domperidone, metoclopramide, clebopride and
trimebutine on the gastro-duodenal preparation of the guinea pig.

Schuurkes JA, Helsen LF, Van Nueten JM.

Domperidone (dopamine antagonist), metoclopramide and clebopride (both dopamine
antagonists and stimulators of the intramural cholinergic system), and
trimebutine (spasmolytic) are used in the treatment of digestive disorders such
as dyspepsia or gastritis. Our aim was to compare the effects of these compounds 
on the isolated intact gastroduodenal preparation of the guinea pig. Domperidone 
(IC50 = 10(-6) M), clebopride (10(-5) M) and metoclopramide (2 X 10(-5) M)
antagonized gastric relaxations induced by dopamine. In contrast with clebopride,
domperidone and metoclopramide enhanced the amplitude of gastric contractions,
moderately reduced contractile frequency, and enhanced antroduodenal coordination
in a dose-dependent manner (EC50 for domperidone 3 X 10(-7) M, for metoclopramide
2 X 10(-5) M). Trimebutine reduced gastric spontaneous activity and antroduodenal
coordination. Trimebutine had a direct relaxatory effect on gastric tone (EC50 = 
4 X 10(-6) M). The mechanism of this inhibitory effect remains unknown but our
data indicate that it is not mediated via dopamine or opiate receptor
subtypes.CONCLUSION: domperidone, clebopride, metoclopramide and trimebutine
exert distinct and diverse effects on the motility parameters of the
gastroduodenal preparation of the guinea pig. These diverging actions may help
explain the differences in patients' responsiveness to the treatment of digestive
disorders such as dyspepsia or gastritis.

PMID: 4087563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Lab Invest. 1985 Oct;53(4):433-42.

Effects of mannitol on the postischemic kidney. Biochemical, functional, and
morphologic assessments.

Zager RA, Mahan J, Merola AJ.

To determine the effects of mannitol on the postischemic kidney rats were
subjected to 25 minutes of renal artery occlusion and immediately after vascular 
clamp release they received a 2-ml intravenous mannitol bolus (20%). Equimolar
urea-injected rats and sham-injected rats served as controls. Postischemic renal 
blood flow, tubular metabolic work (renal O2 consumption), adenine nucleotide
pools, renal oxidant stress (tissue glutathione, malondialdehyde levels), and
tubular cell/mitochondrial swelling (histomorphometry) were assessed at variable 
times during the early vascular reflow period (15 to 60 minutes). The severity of
acute renal failure was determined by serial blood urea nitrogen and serum
creatinine studies (24, 48 hours), and by renal histology (48 hours). Mannitol
increased postischemic renal blood flow (2-fold), renal O2 consumptions (3-fold),
and urine flow compared to urea-injected and sham-injected controls. Postischemic
glutathione levels were equally depressed (reduced 33%) in all three treatment
groups. Malondialdehyde did not rise. Mannitol significantly lowered total
adenine nucleotide content without changing ATP at 15 minutes post renal artery
occlusion. At 60 minutes post renal artery occlusion, mannitol- and urea-treated 
groups had comparable ATP levels, 25% higher than the noninjected controls.
Mannitol and urea induced comparable decrements in proximal tubular cell
swelling, returning cell volumes to normal values. However, mitochondrial
swelling was unabated. Mannitol and urea caused significant and nearly identical 
degrees of functional and morphologic amelioration of renal injury.CONCLUSIONS:
Mannitol administered after renal ischemia ameliorates both functional and
morphologic aspects of acute tubular injury despite dramatically increasing
tubular aerobic work. This protection appears not to be due to early postischemic
improvements in adenine nucleotide content, to increased renal blood flow, to
increased urine flow, or to a lessening of oxidant stress. The data are
consistent with the view that protection results from acute hypertonic solute
loading which either directly or indirectly decreases tubular cell but not
mitochondrial swelling.

PMID: 3930877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Pflugers Arch. 1985 Oct;405(3):188-92.

Exercise-induced changes in lipoprotein lipase activity (LPLA) in skeletal
muscles of the dog.

Budohoski L.

The aim of this work was to study the effect of physical exercise on muscle
lipoprotein lipase activity (LPL) in dogs. Existence of two forms of LPL: heparin
releasable and unreleasable was demonstrated in skeletal muscles, and the changes
in the activity of both forms were followed during 3 h treadmill running, using
biopsy samples taken from m. biceps femoris. During the first two hours of
exercise the heparin releasable form of LPL was progressively increasing, whereas
the heparin unreleasable form of the enzyme was decreasing. Thus, a significant
negative correlation between activities of the two forms was ascertained (r =
0.72, P less than 0.01). In the final period of exercise, activity of the heparin
releasable form of LPL tended to stabilize on the enhanced level, and activity of
the heparin unreleasable form increased. In the further series of experiments a
relationship between exercise intensity and activity of the heparin releasable
form of LPL was studied during 1 h exercise bouts. A significant positive
correlation (r = 0.84, P less than 0.001) was ascertained between LPL activity
and intensity of work. A comparison between LPL activity in the muscle engaged in
exercise (m. biceps femoris) and nonactive muscle (m. coccygeus) revealed that
the enhancement of the enzyme activity during physical work does not occur in the
latter.IN CONCLUSION: it was found that physical exercise induces a marked
intensity-dependent increase of LPL activity in working muscles, which is
probably caused by an elevated transport of the enzyme molecules from the muscle 
cells to the intravascular space. The latter suggestion is based on the
reciprocal changes of the heparin releasable and unreleasable (probably
intracellular) forms of LPL.

PMID: 4069976  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Sep 20;110(38):1452-7.

[Function tests of the lower small intestine with 75selenium-labeled
homotaurocholic acid in Crohn disease and resections of the small intestine].

[Article in German]

Balzer K, Breuer N, Goebell H, Szy D, Quebe-Fehling E, Freundlieb O, Strötges MW.

Faecal excretion of bile acids was investigated using 75Se-homotaurocholic acid
(75SeHCAT) in a total of 75 patients: 9 with irritable colon, 58 with Crohn's
disease and 8 with small-bowel resection due to various indications but without
Crohn's disease. Bile acid malabsorption, taken as a pathological bile acid
retention of less than 19%, was found present in 43 patients with diseased
terminal ileum or with more than 20 cm resection of this organ, except in one
case (12 cm). On the other hand a normal bile acid retention (21 to 27%) was
found in 29 of 72 patients (including 9 patients with irritable colon) who showed
either no radiologically detectable lesion of the ileum (n = 21) or changes
involving an extension of up to 30 cm (inflammation or resection) in the terminal
ileum (n = 8), with the exception of one case (50 cm). Three patients had a
raised bile acid excretion contrary to clinical expectation: they had colitis
Crohn without radiologically detectable involvement of the small intestine. Thus 
using the 75SeHCAT-retention test it seems possible to recognize functional
disorders in diseased segments of the bowel before the appearance of
radiologically detectable changes.CONCLUSION: 75SeHCAT is a suitable substance
for investigations on the function of the lower small intestine.

PMID: 3928315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1985 Sep;110(1):114-9.

Evidence that a "memory' for glucose metabolism desensitizes A-cell
responsiveness in the perfused pancreas of the rat.

Grill V, Rundfeldt M, Efendić S.

The effects of prior exposure to glucose or an inhibitor of glycolysis
(iodoacetate) on A-cell sensitivity to glucose in the perfused pancreas of the
rat was investigated. Inhibition of glucagon secretion by a high glucose
concentration (22 mM) was attenuated and delayed when tested 20 min after a
previous infusion with the same glucose concentration. Previously elevated
glucose also delayed for 2 min a glucagon response to glucose omission whereas
the total response was not significantly affected. During a 20 min perfusion with
1 mM iodoacetate, glucagon secretion increased and rates of secretion were
further augmented after withdrawal of iodoacetate. When introduced 10 min after
cessation of the iodoacetate pulse, 22 mM glucose failed to affect insulin or
somatostatin release but, conversely, induced a profound decrease in glucagon
secretion which was more marked than during control conditions.CONCLUSIONS:
A-cell sensitivity to glucose is diminished and enhanced by prior fuel abundance 
and deprivation, respectively. Such effects could be due to persisting changes in
A-cell energy availability rather than to pertubations in insulin or somatostatin
secretion.

PMID: 2863914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1559. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1985 Sep;78(9):1384-91.

[Echocardiography in chronic aortic insufficiency. Prediction of the
reversibility of left ventricular dysfunction following surgical correction].

[Article in French]

Castillo-Fenoy A, Morice MC, Royer T, Hennetier G.

The long term outcome of patients undergoing aortic valve replacement (AVR) for
chronic aortic regurgitation (AR) is mainly determined by the reversibility or
permanence of left ventricular dysfunction. We analysed the echocardiogram of 49 
patients before and after surgery to identify the patients whose left ventricular
dysfunction regressed completely after AVR. The patients were divided into 2
groups according to the results of the last postoperative echocardiogram: Group
I: 25 patients whose left ventricular dimensions and wall motion reverted to
normal; Group II: 24 patients with dilated and/or hypokinetic left ventricles.
The two groups of patients were comparable for sex (Group I: 19 men, 6 women;
Group II: 20 men, 4 women), age (Group I: 50,8 years, Group II: 53,9 years) and
length of postoperative follow-up (Group I: 32 months, Group II: 34 months). The 
following parameters were measured and compared: diastolic and systolic left
ventricular dimensions, myocardial mass and ventricular wall motion.RESULTS:
Patients in Group I had less left ventricular dilatation than those in Group II
(+35% vs +60%, p less than 0,001) and left ventricular contraction was better
(FE: 62% vs 45%, p less than 0,001; %FS: 35% vs 23%, p less than 0,001). This
study establishes that patients with chronic AR and % delta Dd less than 60%, an 
EF greater than 50% or %FS greater than 25%, have about a 90% probability of
normalisation of LV function after AVR. If one of the indices exceeds these
threshold values, the probability of permanent LV dilatation and/or hypokinesia
after AVR is also about 90%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2935111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Clin Rheumatol. 1985 Sep;4(3):290-3.

25-Hydroxycholecalciferol in experimental osteoporosis.

Carrozzo M, Pallante R, Cantatore FP, Lo Sasso F, D'Amore M, Pipitone V.

The authors, using the experimental pattern of bone rarefaction induced by a low 
calcium diet, tried to determine if 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, administered at
doses and according to procedures similar to those used in osteoporosis, might
interfere in such a process of rarefaction. The statistical evaluation of the
results concerning the size of the amount of spongy bone presented evidence for
the sharp decrease in the specific bone volume in rats placed on a low calcium
diet as compared to control rats. Such a difference is found even between rats
treated with 25-OH-D3. Nonetheless, the authors reported a difference--although
not statistically significant--that indicated an increase in the amount of bone
in rats on a normal diet but treated with vitamin D as compared to control
rats.IN CONCLUSION: 25-OH-D3 by itself, the diet being the same, was not able to 
ameliorate the amount of bone.

PMID: 4064586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. G Ital Cardiol. 1985 Sep;15(9):879-87.

[Echocardiographic and clinical correlations in infectious endocarditis of the
left heart].

[Article in Italian]

Purcaro A, Capestro F, Ciampani N, Blandini A, Costantini C, Fratadocchi GB,
Belardinelli R, Silenzi C.

The echocardiographic features were correlated with the clinical findings and
outcome in 35 patients with aortic and/or mitral valve endocarditis. There were
26 males and 9 females with a mean age of 38 years. The infection involved native
valves in 27 patients and prosthetic valves in 8 patients. Echocardiographically,
fourteen patients had involvement of native aortic valve. All patients in this
group required surgical intervention, nine patients during antimicrobial therapy.
Congestive heart failure was the clinical indication for valvular replacement. A 
patient died immediately after surgery from low cardiac output syndrome. Six
patients had echocardiographic evidence of aortic and mitral valves involvement. 
A patient in this group expired before surgery, five underwent surgery because of
progressive heart failure (aortic or aortic and mitral valves replacement). Seven
patients showed lesions on native mitral valve (6 in this group had prolapse
syndrome). A patient died from cerebrovascular embolus, two underwent surgery
because of persistent infection and embolic events, four were successfully
treated with medical therapy. Among patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis, 
four showed signs of valvular dehiscence and required surgical intervention,
during antimicrobial therapy, from congestive heart failure; one patient expired 
from recurrent infection. The pathological findings correlated well with
echocardiographic findings.CONCLUSIONS: in IE the localization of lesions by echo
has prognostic significance: most patients with aortic valve or aortic and mitral
valves endocarditis require early surgical intervention because of congestive
heart failure. On the contrary, mitral valve involvement carries a better
prognosis, requiring less frequently valvular replacement; the patients with
echocardiographic signs of prosthetic valve dehiscence require urgent
intervention.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4085734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1985 Sep-Oct;26(5):463-7.

Reinforced graft-to-artery anastomosis: an experimental study.

Baker JD.

This experiment was designed to study the effects of reinforcing graft-to-artery 
anastomoses. A section of infrarenal aorta was replaced with a Dacron graft in 24
dogs. In eighteen animals one anastomosis was reinforced with a cuff of Dacron
graft material, while the remaining six dogs both anastomoses were reinforced,
one with graft material and the other with Dacron mesh. The animals were
sacrificed at three week to six month intervals. The grafts were examined grossly
and microscopically, and the tensile strength of the anastomosis determined.
There was no difference in tensile strength or in the luminal healing. There was 
only limited fibrous healing under the graft material cuff whereas there was full
incorporation of the mesh cuff.CONCLUSIONS: Reinforcement is not required
routinely. When used, the cuff should be made with mesh rather than graft
material.

PMID: 3161897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1563. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1985 Sep;61(3):484-9.

Effects of the antiprogesterone steroid RU 486 during midluteal phase in normal
women.

Schaison G, George M, Lestrat N, Reinberg A, Baulieu EE.

The antiprogesterone steroid RU 486 (17 beta-hydroxy-11
beta-4-dimethyl-aminophenyl)17 alpha(1-propynyl)estra-4,9-dien-3-one) was given
orally to 32 normally cycling women for 4 days, starting on the fourth day of the
luteal phase. Uterine bleeding occurred on the third day of RU 486 administration
in all 14 women treated with 100 mg/day, in 7 of the 8 women treated with 50 mg, 
and in 8 of 10 women receiving 25 mg/day. Premature luteal regression induced by 
RU 486 occurred in 8 women treated with 100 mg/day, in 3 treated with 50 mg, and 
in 2 receiving 25 mg/day. Plasma LH was measured every 15 min from 0800-1200 h
for 5 days in 17 women. Mean LH levels decreased and pulsatile release
disappeared in 7 of the 8 women treated with 100 mg, in 2 of 4 receiving 50 mg,
and in 1 of 5 treated with 25 mg. RU 486 had no effect when given to 5 women with
anovulatory cycles for 4 days starting on day 18 of the cycle.IN CONCLUSION: 1)
RU 486, given to normally cycling women at midluteal phase, provokes uterine
bleeding. 2) This effect occurs whether or not luteal regression is induced by
the compound, indicating that RU 486 acts directly upon the endometrial tissue,
very likely at the progesterone receptor level. 3) The drug may impair
simultaneously or separately luteal function and gonadotropin secretion in a
dose-dependent manner. 4) The lack of antiglucocorticosteroid activity, at the
dosage of 100 mg/day, suggests that RU 486 may be useful for fertility control.

PIP: The antiprogesterone steroid RU 486
(17beta-hydroxy-11beta-4-dimethyl-aminophenyl)17alpha(1-propynyl)estra-4,9-dien-3
-one) was given orally to 32 normally cycling women for 4 days, starting on the
4th day of the luteal phase. Uterine bleeding occurred on the 3rd day of RU 486
administration in all 14 women treated with 100 mg/day, in 7 of the 8 women
treated with 50 mg and in 8 of 10 women receiving 25 mg/day. Premature luteal
regression induced by RU 486 occurred in 8 women treated with 100 mg/day, in 3
treated with 50 mg, and in 2 receiving 25 mg/day. Plasma LH was measured every 15
minutes from 0800-1200 hours for 5 days in 17 women. Mean LH levels decreased and
pulsatile release disappeared in 7 of 8 women treated with 100 mg, in 2 of 4
women receiving 50 mg, and in 1 of 5 treated with 25 mg. RU 486 had no effect
when given to 5 women with anovulatory cycles for 4 days starting on day 18 of
the cycle. The following were conclusions drawn. 1) RU 486, given to normally
cycling women at midluteal phase, provokes uterine bleeding. 2) This effect
occurs whether or not luteal regression is induced by the compound, indicating
that RU 486 acts directly on the endometrial tissue, very likely at the
progesterone receptor level. 3) The drug may impair simultaneously or separately 
luteal function and gonadotropin secretion in a dose-dependent manner. 4) The
lack of antiglucocorticosteroid activity, at a dosage of 100 mg/day, suggests
that RU 486 may be useful for fertility control. author's modified
author's modified

PMID: 2991322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1985 Sep;39(3):263-70.

Iodine deficiency, hypothyroidism, and endemic goitre in southern Tanzania. A
survey showing the positive effects of iodised oil injections by TSH
determination in dried blood spots.

Wächter W, Mvungi MG, Triebel E, van Thiel D, Marschner I, Wood WG, Habermann J, 
Pickardt CR, Scriba PC.

The Ukinga and Uwanji regions, located in the southern highlands of Tanzania,
were studied for the degree of iodine deficiency and the incidence of goitre and 
hypothyroidism, respectively. A urinary iodine excretion as low as 17.6 +/- 9.3
micrograms/g creatinine was observed in Wangama village. The mean goitre
prevalence in 27 villages in Uwanji ranged between 65 and 96% (n = 3031
schoolchildren). Of 681 pregnant women from Ukinga 79.6% had goitre. The
prevalence of cretinism as estimated on clinical criteria was 3% in Magoye
(Uwanji). A normal serum TSH (below 2.1 mU/l) was observed in only 12 out of 66
school children before iodine prophylaxis, whereas the T4/TBG ratio was decreased
in 36 of 63 cases. Blood spot TSH levels in newborn infants (n = 219) from
mothers without iodine supplementation were above 12 mU/l in 45%. In contrast,
only 20.3% of the newborn (n = 118) had elevated blood spot TSH (p less than
0.002) when the mothers had received an iodised oil injection during pregnancy.
Most of the newborn (n = 18; 75%) of the latter group with elevated TSH (n = 24) 
came from mothers who had received the iodine injection only 1-25 days before
delivery. Maternal iodine prophylaxis in late pregnancy does not increase the
rate of neonatal hypothyroidism.CONCLUSIONS: It has been confirmed that severe
iodine deficiency resulting in endemic goitre, cretinism, and hypothyroidism is
prevalent in the regions studied. Dried blood spot TSH determinations may serve
as an index for the efficiency of iodine prophylaxis programmes. Such a programme
was carried out with relatively little expenditure and effort on a large scale
basis.

PMCID: PMC1052447
PMID: 2995534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Mycotoxin Res. 1985 Sep;1(2):77-82. doi: 10.1007/BF03192007.

Biotransformation of T-2 toxin and diacetoxyscirpenol in the isolated perfused
rat liver.

Gareis M(1), Ertl B, Bauer J, Gedek B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medical Microbiology, Infectious and Epidemic Diseases, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, University of Munich, Veterinärstr. 13, 8000, Munich 22,
FRG.

CONCLUSION: Twelve metabolites of T-2 toxin and two metabolites of DAS have been 
detected by GLC-MS in the perfusate of isolated rat livers. Less than 50% of the 
administered dose was recovered in the perfusate. However, preliminary results of
the analysis of bile show that considerable amounts of T-2 toxin and DAS were
excreted mainly as glucuronide conjugates. The concurrence of the data reported
here with the results of in vivo studies indicate that the isolaged perfused rat 
liver system is suitable in studying the metabolism of trichothecence mycotoxins.

PMID: 23605792  [PubMed]


1566. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Sep;86(9):1157-60.

[G-I hormones and gastric functions--with special reference to the pyloroplasty
for the selective proximal vagotomy].

[Article in Japanese]

Hanyu N, Aoki T, Takayama S, Tokuyasu K, Furukawa Y, Ohira Y, Nagao F.

Serum gastrin changes before and after selective proximal vagotomy (SPV) were
studied in relation to the gastric motility and the acid secretion clinically and
experimentally and the effects of pyloroplasty were investigated.RESULTS AND
CONCLUSIONS: Experimental studies revealed that test meals provoked gastrin
secretion to stimulate gastric motility. Periodical gastric acid secretions were 
observed during hunger period, along with elevated serum gastrin levels. After
SPV, gastrin responses to the test meals were significantly increased so that the
pyloric ring motility was disturbed. Clinical studies revealed that adrenaline
infusion test provoked significant gastrin responses to secrete acid secretions
in duodenal ulcer patients. After SPV, increased gastrin responses to adrenaline 
restored acid secretions as much as preoperative acid secretions responded to the
adrenaline test. Pyloroplasty for the SPV inhibited the gastrin and acid
secretions responded to the adrenaline test.

PMID: 4088232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Surgery. 1985 Sep;98(3):571-8.

Effect of prostaglandin blockers on ascites fluid in pancreatitis.

Farias LR, Frey CF, Holcroft JW, Gunther R.

Prostacyclin (PGI2), a potent vasodilator with complex effects on the mesenteric 
circulation, has been found to be elevated in the hemorrhagic ascitic fluid of
pigs with hemorrhagic pancreatitis. This investigation was designed to determine 
if blockage of PGI2 significantly reduces the volume and/or toxicity of
hemorrhagic ascitic fluid associated with hemorrhagic pancreatitis in pigs.
Fifteen pigs were studied: five received corticosteroids, five received
ibuprofen, and five were untreated. The relative toxicity of the hemorrhagic
ascitic fluid was assessed by intraperitoneal injections of the fluid from pigs
into mice.RESULTS: (1) hemorrhagic pancreatitis was associated with high levels
of PGI2 in blood 15 times and in hemorrhagic ascitic fluid 25 times that of
baseline; (2) steroids and ibuprofen blocked PGI2 production (p less than 0.05); 
(3) neither steroids nor ibuprofen, even when administered as pretreatment,
decreased ascites formation; and (4) the mortality rate in mice was significantly
reduced (p less than 0.05) in the ibuprofen-treated group as compared with the
untreated and steroid-treated groups.
CONCLUSION: PGI2 does not play a significant role in the volume of ascites
formation. There was an absence of toxicity in the hemorrhagic ascitic fluid of
the ibuprofen-treated group.

PMID: 3898455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1985 Sep-Oct;189(5):202-9.

[Correlation of labor onset, membrane rupture and birth with meteorological
events].

[Article in German]

Schaller A, Pfersmann C, Machalek A.

The birth-physiological events: beginning of labour, rupture of membranes and
delivery of 6 539 cases in the years 1976 to 1981 can be correlated with five
groups of weather situations: no definite pressure gradient, anticyclonic,
meridional, zonal mild maritime, and cyclonic.THE RESULTS: temporary increase of 
the frequency of births in weather with no definite pressure gradient in summer, 
in anticyclonic weather in winter and in cyclonic weather in the first half of
the year, correspond only partly (namely for the changes within the group of
cyclonic weather) with the temporarily increasing number of births during a
weather front, as it ist known from experience. The causes of the correlations
found out are unknown, and the setting up of a statistical model and consequently
an obstestrical-metereological forecast is impossible for the time being.

PMID: 4072315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Aug 30;110(35):1328-31.

[Bronchodilator effect of fenoterol aerosol. Are 4 0.1-mg doses better than a
single dose of 0.4 mg?].

[Article in German]

Magnussen H, Fontani M.

The bronchodilator effect of a single dose of 0.4 mg fenoterol aerosol was
compared with the sequential application of the same total dose in 11 patients
with bronchial asthma. The patients received either 0.4 mg fenoterol followed by 
3 doses of placebo at 30 minute intervals or four 0.1 mg doses of fenoterol each 
at 30 minute intervals on 2 days in a double-blind randomised investigation. Both
application forms had a marked bronchodilator effect. At 60 minutes two 0.1 mg
doses of fenoterol had the same effect as the initial dose of 0.4 mg whereas at
120 minutes the sequential inhalation of 0.1 mg had the most marked
bronchodilator effect.CONCLUSION: An improvement in beta 2-sympathomimetic
inhalation therapy can be achieved more readily by reducing the dose interval
than by raising the total dose.

PMID: 4028987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. Curr Eye Res. 1985 Aug;4(8):847-50.

Determination of bovine retinal melatonin with HPLC-EC.

Hall F, Tengerdy C, Morita M, Pautler E.

Bovine retinae, devoid of pigment epithelium, were assayed for endogenous
melatonin using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical
detection (HPLC-EC). A method of extracting the more polar biogenic amines and
metabolites was employed, allowing for direct injection of retinal supernatants
into the chromatographic column.THE RESULTS: 1) confirm the presence of melatonin
in the bovine retina; 2) provide a "benchmark" of 3.01 ng/retina for normal adult
retinae collected during photophase; and 3) indicate that HPLC-EC represents an
adequately sensitive instrument for the detection and quantification of melatonin
in a single bovine retina.

PMID: 4042666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. J Surg Res. 1985 Aug;39(2):140-9.

The role of thromboxane in primate endotoxin shock.

Casey LC, Fletcher JR, Zmudka MI, Ramwell PW.

Previous studies have suggested an important role of thromboxane (Tx) in the
pathogenesis of endotoxin shock in the rat. The present study evaluated the role 
of thromboxane in an LD70 primate model of endotoxin shock by administering 6
mg/kg of endotoxin to three groups of animals that were pretreated with either
saline (5 ml), OKY 1581 (2 mg/kg, 10 min prior), or imidazole (25 mg/kg/hr
starting 30 min prior), groups I, II, and III, respectively. There were
significant differences between the groups with respect to changes in MAP, PAP,
and CO. OKY 1581 effectively blocked endotoxin-induced increase in plasma Tx.
However, as a result of shunting of the endoperoxides into the prostacyclin
pathway, there was a greater increase in plasma 6-keto PGF1 alpha, the stable
hydrolysis product of prostacyclin. Imidazole augmented the formation of both
prostacyclin and Tx. Despite the differences in plasma prostanoids, there was no 
difference between the groups with respect to changes in platelet or WBC counts, 
nor in survival: I (4/10); II (4/10); III (2/6).CONCLUSIONS: (i)
endotoxin-induced neutropenia and decrease in the platelet count are not Tx
mediated; (ii) Tx is not solely responsible for the decrease in CO during
endotoxin shock; (iii) it is possible to prevent endotoxin-induced increase in
the PAP by either blocking Tx formation or by increasing endogenous PGI2
production; and (iv) Tx may not be a major contributing factor in the mortality
of endotoxin shock in baboons.

PMID: 3839548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. J Trauma. 1985 Aug;25(8):740-5.

Patterns of trauma care costs and reimbursements: the burden of uninsured
motorists.

Oakes DD, Holcomb SF, Sherck JP.

In today's rapidly changing medical-economic environment, hospitals must
continually reexamine their services to determine which are cost efficient. We
used a database system to analyze our financial experience with motor vehicle
accident victims discharged between July 1982 and June 1983. We found that motor 
vehicle accidents accounted for 2.1% of discharges, but 6.6% of patient-days. The
average length of stay was 23.8 days, more than three times the hospital average 
(7.4 days). Charges averaged +723 per day, essentially identical with the
hospital average. In terms of patient-days, 51% of accident victims were covered 
by private insurance, 39% by Medi-Cal (California's Medicaid), and 3% by
Medicare; 7% were uninsured and unsponsored. Hospital charges related directly to
patient-days and were identical for the four financial categories. Overall
reimbursement for these patients was 80.3% of charges, approximately equal to our
estimated costs. Reimbursement as a percentage of charges varied greatly
according to the category of sponsorship: private insurance, 90%; Medicare, 78%; 
and unsponsored, 15%. Medi-Cal paid a fixed confidential per diem
rate.CONCLUSIONS: Caring for victims of motor vehicle accidents was a break-even 
proposition for our institution in 1982-1983. Uninsured and unsponsored patients 
produced a large deficit which of necessity had to be made up by cost shifting to
privately insured patients or by direct tax subsidies. Motor vehicle insurance
per se made only a modest contribution to our reimbursement for the care of these
patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4020907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. Jpn J Antibiot. 1985 Aug;38(8):2124-8.

[Fundamental and clinical study on cefminox in the obstetrical and gynecological 
field].

[Article in Japanese]

Takamura S.

In order to assess clinical utility of cefminox (CMNX, MT-141), its transference 
into internal genital organ tissues and pelvic dead space was determined. In
addition, transference of CMNX from maternal blood into fetal umbilical cord
blood as well as into amniotic fluid was evaluated. In the clinical study, CMNX
was administered in 4 cases. The following results were obtained. Transference
into internal genital organ tissues; The concentration ratio of each tissue
against serum concentration ranged from 25.3 to 42.7%, showing favourable
transference as compared to other cephems. Transference into pelvic dead space;
At 6 hours after intravenous injection of 1 g CMNX, its concentration in the
pelvic dead space reached its peak of 38.8 micrograms/ml of the serum
concentration, followed by gradual decrease. Transference into umbilical cord
blood and amniotic fluid; Following intravenous injection of 1 g CMNX, its
concentration in umbilical cord blood became almost similar to that of maternal
blood at about 3 hours later, being 20 micrograms/ml. After that, it tended to
decrease in accordance with the concentration in maternal blood. It appears that 
the drug persists for a more prolonged period in amniotic fluid.CLINICAL RESULTS:
Clinically, CMNX was used in the treatment of 4 cases including 2 cases of
lymphocystitis, 1 case of intrapelvic cellulitis and 1 case of postoperative
wound abscess, and the results obtained were rated as excellent in 1 case, good
in 2 cases and poor in 1 case with an efficacy rate of 75%. None of the cases
treated experienced adverse reactions nor any laboratory abnormalities were
observed.

PMID: 3935823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Respir Care. 1985 Aug;30(8):685-90.

Benefits and costs to hospitals affiliating with a respiratory therapist
educational program.

Douce FH, Vieth KP.

The services provided and revenue generated by health science students are often 
not considered when hospital administrators calculate the costs of affiliating
with educational programs.METHODS: We documented the services provided and
revenue generated by one class of students being trained as therapists in a
university program.
RESULTS: Fifteen students with no previous work experience in respiratory
therapeutics who had demonstrated preclinical competencies for basic therapeutics
and who were guided by quantitative clinical objectives collectively replaced the
loss of clinical services and revenue of the staff therapists who were assigned
to be their clinical instructors.
CONCLUSION: The use of a qualified staff therapist as a clinical instructor can
be a cost-effective approach for providing clinical education in basic
therapeutics, and the contributions that students make to hospital services
should be considered when affiliation agreements are being negotiated.

PMID: 10315681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. Z Kardiol. 1985 Aug;74(8):466-74.

[Significance of fixed anaerobic threshold, training lactate and training heart
rate for bicycle ergometer training with myocardial infarct patients].

[Article in German]

Meyer K, Weidemann H.

302 male myocardial infarction patients were divided into 4 groups according to
their symptom-limited physical working capacity and examined during bicycle
ergometer training. Lactic acid and heart rate during training were
measured.RESULTS: Arterial lactic acid and training heart rate decreased
proportionally with the reduction of the maximal symptom-limited working
capacity. Arterial lactic acid levels in 4 training groups of 100, 75, 50 and 25 
watts were 2.23 (2.56) mmol/l, 1.87 (2.32) mmol/l, 1.58 (1.73) mmol/l and 1.20
(1.11) mmol/l, respectively, p less than 0.001 (in bracket = with beta blocker). 
Decrease in arterial lactic acid levels according to the reduction of working
capacity corresponded to a decrease of training heart rate. In patients with beta
blocker therapy results were less pronounced. Intensity of training corresponded 
to about 80% of VO2 measured as maximal symptom-limited physical working
capacity. Training heart rate corresponded to about 85% of maximal heart rate as 
measured at symptom-limited physical working capacity. The so-called fixed
anaerobic threshold of 4 mmol/l lactic acid was not reached by patients with
myocardial infarction up to a training intensity of 100 watts (approximately 1.3 
watts/kg). From this study it can be concluded that fixed anaerobic threshold and
lactic acid are of secondary importance in determining the intensity of endurance
training in patients with myocardial infarction.

PMID: 2864763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1576. Nihon Naibunpi Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Jul 20;61(7):775-83.

[Effects of intracerebroventricular (I.C.V.) administration of
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) on hemodynamics in conscious spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHR): relation to sympathetic nervous system].

[Article in Japanese]

Kurumatani H, Kushiro T, Kajiwara N.

Recently, the serotonergic nervous system has been receiving attention as part of
the blood pressure regulating mechanism of the central nervous system, and it has
been postulated that the system may participate in the pathogenesis of
hypertension. The purpose of this experiment is to investigate the mechanism of
hemodynamic change after i.c.v. administration of 5-HT in SHR and in normotensive
Wistar Rats (WR).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-week-old male SHR (n = 11) and
age-matched WR (n = 14) were used. On the day before the experiments, the
unilateral carotid artery and jugular vein were cannulated. Also, a cannula was
inserted stereotaxically into the anterior horn of the lateral cerebral
ventricle. Experiments were performed under the conscious and minimum restrained 
state. Experiment I: After observation of resting mean arterial pressure (MAP)
and heart rate (HR) for 20 minutes, 5-HT (5 micrograms/5 microliter saline) was
administrated i.c.v., and MAP and HR were observed for 90 minutes. Then, 200
micrograms of phenoxybenzamine (POB) was given from the jugular cannula. Thirty
minutes after the POB administration when MAP was stabilized, 5 micrograms of
5-HT was again given i.c.v., and MAP and HR were recorded for 30 minutes.
Experiment II: Plasma norepinephrine (PNE) was measured before and 2 minutes
after 5-HT i.c.v. administration. The control sample (1.5 ml) was withdrawn at
least 30 minutes before the 5-HT injection, and immediately after the blood
sampling, the same amount of blood which was obtained from the age-matched donor 
rat of the same strain was transfused.
RESULTS: Experiment I: Resting MAP was 136.4 +/- 5.1 mmHg in SHR and 99.1 +/- 3.0
mmHg in WR. I.c.v. administration of 5-HT elicited consistent pressor response in
SHR and in WR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4065388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. Nihon Naibunpi Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Jul 20;61(7):737-43.

[Studies on the pathogenesis of subacute thyroiditis].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi N, Tamai H, Nagai K, Matsubayashi S, Matsuzuka F, Kuma K, Goto H, Uno
H, Sasazuki T, Nagataki S.

Despite the fact that subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is a common disease, its
pathogenesis is still uncertain. At present, viral infection is simply thought to
be a possible pathogenic factor. In Caucasians and Chinese, however, a strong
association has recently been found between HLA-Bw35 and SAT. Therefore, genetic 
factors are also thought to participate in the onset of SAT. In this study we
have further attempted to clarify the pathogenesis of this disease in this
regard.PROTOCOL: HLA typing for A, B and C loci (class I antigens) was performed 
on 89 patients with SAT (males: 7, females: 82) aged from 23 to 66 years, and DR 
and MT loci (class II antigens) were investigated in 55 patients. In 12 patients,
viral antibody titers were measured as soon as possible after onset and two weeks
later. The viral antibodies evaluated were those of Influenza A and B, Coxsackie 
A9, B1, B2, B3, B4, B5 and B6, Echo 3, 7, 11 and 12, Parainfluenza 1, 2, 3 and 4,
and Adeno 8 virus. The following results were obtained: In class I HLA typing,
the frequency of HLA-Bw35 in SAT was 67.4%, which was significantly (p less than 
0.0001) higher than that in the control (14.1%). On the other hand, the frequency
of Cw1 in SAT (14.6%) was significantly (p less than 0.01) lower than that of the
control (32.1%), and that of Cw3 (65.2%) was significantly (p less than 0.01)
higher than that of the control (46.5%). In class II HLA typing, the frequency of
DRw8 in SAT was 38.2%, which was significantly (p less than 0.05) higher than
that of the control (21.9%). Other antigens showed no significant
changes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2998895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Am J Physiol. 1985 Jul;249(1 Pt 2):F148-59.

Responses of the normal rat kidney to sequential ischemic events.

Zager RA, Jurkowitz MS, Merola AJ.

This study was undertaken to help define how one episode of renal ischemia,
insufficient to cause acute renal failure, influences the susceptibility of the
kidney to a second more severe ischemic event. Female Sprague-Dawley rats
underwent either 15 min of bilateral renal artery occlusion (RAO) or sham RAO.
They were subjected 30 min, 3.5 h, or 24 h later to 25 min of RAO. Renal function
(GFR, BUN, creatinine), histology, and adenine nucleotide concentrations were
compared before and after the 25-min ischemic event. Only the rats with a 30-min 
hiatus between the 15- and 25-min bouts of RAO had significantly worse renal
failure than controls subjected to a single 25-min ischemic event. Three findings
were noted only in the rats with increased susceptibility: tubular cell swelling 
and luminal membrane injury prior to 25 min of RAO and a relative failure of ATP 
formation immediately following 25 min of RAO. Susceptibility to 25 min of RAO
did not correlate with preischemia ATP content.CONCLUSION: prior mild ischemic
injury transiently lowers renal resistance to a second ischemic event. Normal
resistance is rapidly restored once improvements in prior cell membrane injury,
cell volume regulation, and cellular energetics occur. However, resistance to
additional ischemia can be normal despite persisting depressions in renal ATP
content.

PMID: 4014471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 1985 Jul;34(4):750-3.

Stimulation of Schistosoma mansoni oviposition in vitro by animal and human
portal serum.

Wu GY, Wu CH, Dunn MA, Kamel R.

Coupled adult pairs of Schistosoma mansoni were incubated in medium containing
either peripheral or portal serum from rat, rabbit, hamster or humans. Daily egg 
production was measured. In all cases egg production was significantly increased 
for pairs in the presence of portal sera compared with that in the presence of
peripheral sera. Fractionation of rabbit portal serum according to molecular
weight demonstrated that the most active component(s) were in the range of 2,000 
to 50,000. These fractions were as effective in stimulating oviposition as whole 
portal serum.CONCLUSIONS: 1) portal serum factor(s) that stimulate S. mansoni
oviposition are present in susceptible and non-susceptible hosts; 2) the
molecular weight range for the active components is larger than would be expected
for simple carbohydrates, amino acids or free fatty acids absorbed from the
gastrointestinal tract.

PMID: 4025688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Gan No Rinsho. 1985 Jul;31(9 Suppl):1189-94.

[Chemo-endocrine therapy of diffuse carcinoma of the stomach and its clinical
evaluation].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitaoka H.

Based on experimental study that some human gastric cancers do contain measurable
estrogen receptor (ER) and the growth of diffuse carcinoma of the stomach on nude
mice depended on sex hormone. Chemo-endocrine therapy after gastrectomy for
female patients are starting since 1980.RESULTS: 1) The cumulative 2, 3 and 4
year survival rate in 8 patients with chemo-endocrine therapy (TAM+) revealed
significant higher (100%, 80% and 53.4%) than those (59.2%, 23.7% and 0%) in 10
patients with chemotherapy alone (TAM-) after curative gastrectomy. Average
disease free interval showed two times longer (32.0 m0) in TAM(+) than those
(15.3 m0) in TAM(-). There was no significant on survival rate in both groups of 
noncurativelly resected patients. 2) Patients with higher ER contents (greater
than or equal to 3.0 fmols) have a tendency with favorable prognosis and better
response to chemo-endocrine therapy.

PMID: 2997501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. J Appl Behav Anal. 1985 Summer;18(2):167-71.

Effects of teacher-directed versus student-directed instruction and cues versus
no cues for improving spelling performance.

Gettinger M.

Author information: 
University of Wisconsin-Madison.

THE PURPOSE OF THIS STUDY WAS TWOFOLD: to examine the effects of imitating
children's spelling errors alone and in combination with visual and verbal cues
on spelling accuracy and retention among poor spellers and to compare the
effectiveness of student-directed versus teacher-directed spelling instruction on
children's spelling accuracy and retention. Nine children received four
alternating experimental treatments during a 16-week spelling program. Results
indicated that student-directed instruction that incorporated visual and verbal
cues was most effective in increasing children's spelling accuracy.

PMCID: PMC1308003
PMID: 16795687  [PubMed]


1582. Z Kardiol. 1985 Jul;74(7):374-83.

[Chronic therapy of congestive cardiomyopathy: effects of prenalterol and
digoxin].

[Article in German]

Schwarz KR, Hofmann M, Mäurer W, Kadel C, von Olshausen K, Rauch B, Kübler W.

Prenalterol (P), a partial adrenergic agonist with functional beta 1-specificity,
has been shown to have inotropic effects when given orally and thus represents a 
potential substitute or adjunct to conventional digitalis therapy (D) in the
long-term management of congestive cardiomyopathy (COCM). A direct comparison
between both drugs has not been reported. In a blind controlled trial, 15
patients with COCM (NYHA II-III) with sinus rhythm and a left ventricular
ejection fraction (LV-EF) of 34.5 +/- 2.6% received consecutively D (0.25-0.5
mg/d), placebo (PLAC), P (slow releases = SR) (80 mg/d SR) and both drugs
combined in respective doses. After 4 weeks of therapy with each drug, effects
were assessed by gated blood pool scintigraphy at rest (R) and during graded
bicycle exercise (EX), systolic time intervals (STI), Holter monitoring and a
clinical score. Plasma levels of both drugs and of catecholamines and lactate
were also determined. Compared to PLAC, LV-EF was not significantly altered by D 
at R (34.5 +/- 2.6 vs. 31.9 +/- 2.3%, p = ns), but a shortening of the
QS2-interval could be demonstrated (533 +/- 7 vs. 550 +/- 6 msec, p less than
0.05). In contrast, during EX an improvement of LV-EF was observed (34.5 +/- 3
vs. 31.3 +/- 2.8%, p less than 0.05). P alone showed no significant alterations
in LV-EF and STI, along with a lack of symptomatic improvement. The addition of D
(D + P) resulted in improved left ventricular performance both at R (LV-EF 37.9
+/- 3.3 vs. 31.9 +/- 2.3%, p less than 0.01, QS2 530 +/- 8 vs. 550 +/- 6 msec, p 
less than 0.01) and during EX (LV-EF 35.3 +/- 2.5 vs. 31.1 +/- 2.8%). Values
between D and D + P were not significantly different. No drug or combination
improved maximal working capacity.CONCLUSIONS: Beneficial effects of chronic
treatment with D could be demonstrated in patients with COCM, particularly during
EX. Further studies are needed to determine why the acute effects of P are not
fully sustained during long-term therapy.

PMID: 3929486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1985 Jun 14;835(1):58-67.

Alteration of alveolar surfactant function after exposure to oxidative stress and
to oxygenated and native arachidonic acid in vitro.

Seeger W, Lepper H, Wolf HR, Neuhof H.

Alveolar surfactant is known to be impaired after inhalation of various oxidizing
agents (NO2, ozone) as well as in inflammatory lung processes, in which
leucocyte-derived active oxygen species or arachidonic acid oxygenation products 
may be involved. The effect of lipid peroxidation, oxygen-free radicals and
oxygenated versus native arachidonic acid on the surface tension behaviour of
natural surfactant was tested in vitro. The studies were performed on pooled
surfactant material, obtained from bronchoalveolar lavage of rabbit lungs, in a
Langmuir trough/Wilhelmy balance system. Initiation of lipid peroxidation with
FeCl3/ascorbate or UV radiation and the generation of OH.(FeCl2/EDTA/H2O2), O2-. 
(xanthine/xanthine oxidase) and 1O2 (NaOCl/H2O2) provoked a common profile of
changes: delayed reduction of surface tension during compression with an increase
in minimal compressibility accelerated decrease of film pressure during
expansion, reduction of hysteresis area and markedly augmented monolayer collapse
rate. Addition of arachidonic acid resulted in decreased minimal compressibility,
stability index and hysteresis area. Incubation with the arachidonic acid
cyclooxygenase products, prostaglandin E2, I2, F2 alpha or thromboxane B2, with
soybean lipoxygenase or with H2O2 and O2-exposure caused only moderate or no
alteration of surfactant behaviour in vitro.CONCLUSION: oxidative stress, but not
arachidonic acid oxygenation products, provoked altered surface tension behaviour
of natural surfactant in vitro.

PMID: 3924109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. J Maxillofac Surg. 1985 Jun;13(3):111-5.

Carcinoma of the tongue and floor of the mouth. Preliminary results of a
multidisciplinary approach.

Airoldi M, Fazio M, Gandolfo S, Ozzello F, Pedani F.

Eighty-five patients (74 males, 11 females) with untreated squamous-cell
carcinoma of the tongue (40 patients) and the floor of the mouth (45 patients)
underwent a multidisciplinary treatment.FOLLOW-UP: 6-72 months (median 52
months). T1-4N0M0 lesions (tongue; 32 patients; floor of mouth, 32 patients) were
treated with cryosurgery (T1-2: 1-2 sessions, T3-4: 2-4 sessions) and
contemporaneously with CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil) (T1-2: 
2 courses; T3-4: 3 courses). 15-20 days after the end of cryo-chemotherapy the
patients underwent TCT (T1: 50 Gy to the tumour and lymph nodes; T2-3-4: same
with an extra dose of 10-15 Gy to the primary lesion). T1-4N1-3M0 patients
(tongue: 8, floor of mouth: 13) received the same cryotherapy and chemotherapy,
followed by surgery (13 extended suprahyoid dissections, 8 conservative
laterocervical dissections, 1 RND). The actuarial survival rate of patients with 
tongue tumours after 6 years was 81.4% (N0 87.1%; N+ 60.0%). Four months after
treatment, 35 patients had reached complete remission (CR). The probability of
remaining in CR for 6 years was 53.6% (N0 56.1%; N+ 50.0%). For tumours of the
floor of the mouth the actuarial survival rate was 55.2% (N0 56.5%; N+ 48.6%).
Four months after treatment, 38 patients had reached CR. The probability of
remaining in CR for 6 years was 59.9% (N0 61.5%; N+ 59.3%). A controlled study is
recommended in the light of these results and the conservative nature of the
protocol.

PMID: 3860586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. J Prim Prev. 1985 Jun;5(4):269-72. doi: 10.1007/BF01324551.

The concept of primary prevention: Creating new paradigms.

Kelly JG.

Author information: 
, .

CONCLUSION: These five topics are different from many of the traditional
professional activities of the mental health professions. They have been
presented to clarify how the ambiguity of prevention work can be explored and how
the substantive merit of primary prevention is increased. The complementary
connections between the social sciences and the clinical professions is expected 
to be enhanced in working on these agendas. The challenge for preventive work is 
to bring together the insight of citizens and professionals, so that critical
thinking and authentic needs for both can be integrated. Working on ideas such as
these five can make it possible for professionals and citizens to develop new
knowledge for new professional roles and new opportunities for citizen
development. Here the professional and citizen become resources for each other,
in contrast to the professional "treating" the "subject" or "patient." Prevention
work means creating knowledge that is available directly for community
development in contrast to individual treatment.

PMID: 24277542  [PubMed]


1586. J Prim Prev. 1985 Jun;5(4):255-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01324547.

The debate on primary prevention: Toward a synthesis.

Elkins DN.

Author information: 
, .

CONCLUSION: The primary prevention model presented above provides a "larger
theoretical structure" capable of including both sides of the debate. It
encourages primary prevention efforts yet builds in the careful assessment,
planning, research, and evaluation needed to prevent excesses.Primary prevention 
is an experiment. It is thezeitgeist in mental health, and it will have its day. 
It is a powerful metaphor spurred by the dream of eradicating mental illness from
society. Primary prevention may prove to be an important turning point in the
history of mental health. Or it may end up on the junk heap of "progressive
ideas" which were either unsound or unworkable. Either way, primary prevention is
an idea whose time has finally come.

PMID: 24277538  [PubMed]


1587. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Jun;37(6):897-902.

[Immunohistochemical study of carcinoembryonic antigen of the tissue and cell
levels in adenocarcinoma of the uterus].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki M, Ohwada M, Tamada T, Shiina Y.

Immunohistochemical staining was performed for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in 
tissues taken from 41 cases of cervical and 67 cases of endometrial
adenocarcinomas. Utilizing this method, smear specimens from 21 cases with
cervical and 25 cases with endometrial adenocarcinomas were investigated at the
cell level.THE RESULTS: 1) The investigation at the tissue level indicated that
CEA staining was positive in 80% of cases of cervical adenocarcinoma. On the
other hand, the positive rate was as low as 55% of the endometrial adenocarcinoma
cases. It further declined to 35% when limited to pure adenocarcinoma without
squamous elements. In addition, a difference was recognized between the cervical 
and endometrial groups in their localization. It was apparent that while even the
cytoplasm in most of the cervical adenocarcinoma appeared to be markedly stained,
such a tendency was observed and was weak in only a part of the cell membrane in 
the endometrial adenocarcinoma cases. 2) The studies with smear specimens
indicated that while 57% (13/21) of the cervical adenocarcinoma cases were CEA
positive, only 12% (3/25) were positive in endometrial adenocarcinoma cases.
Therefore, a difference was recognized between the two at the cell level in their
CEA staining characteristics. 3) Our observation revealed that CEA was more
prominent in the poorly differentiated type than in the well differentiated one, 
in both cervical and endometrial adenocarcinoma. This seems to indicate a
relationship between the histological differentiation and production of CEA. On
the basis of the above findings, it was inferred that although both cervical and 
endometrial adenocarcinoma occur in the common Müllerian duct organ, they might
have different biological characteristics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3894535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1588. No Shinkei Geka. 1985 Jun;13(6):623-30.

[Correlation between postoperative decrement of hematocrit and osmolarity in
neurosurgical patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Taguchi K, Watanabe S, Yamada M, Izumoto G.

After neurosurgical treatment, surgeons sometimes observe decreased hematocrit
(Ht), though fluid as well as blood transfusions were properly given during and
after surgery. This study was performed to investigate the effects of osmotic
change on the decrease in Ht.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Subjects were 153 patients who
underwent neurosurgical treatment. Group 1: 39 patients with parasellar tumor.
Group 2: 35 patients with anterior cerebral aneurysm. Group 3: other 79 patients 
with brain tumor or aneurysm except Group 1 and 2. As the controls, 50 patients
undergoing intraabdominal operations. During the pre- and postoperative course,
blood examination (Ht, RBC, blood glucose, BUN, electrolyte and blood gases),
measurements of osmotic pressure (of serum, urine and cerebrospinal fluid), and
checks of blood and water balance and vital signs were performed.
RESULTS: As compared with the control group in which Ht decreased clearly but
slightly, the neurosurgically-treated groups showed marked decreases in Ht on the
2nd to 4th day after surgery. Of them, groups 1 and 2 showed more prominent
decreases. On the 1st to 4th day after surgery, serum sodium levels of groups 1, 
2 and 3 increased more clearly than that of the control group. Urine volumes of
groups 1 and 2 were larger during one postoperative week, and cases of diabetes
insipidus were included. No significant difference was found in water balance and
urinary osmotic pressure. Relationships between the serum osmotic pressure and
serum sodium content, cerebrospinal fluid osmotic pressure and serum sodium
content, and cerebrospinal fluid and serum osmotic pressure were seen. We lay
stress on the inverse correlation between the decrease in Ht and the time-course 
of serum osmotic pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4047310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. No To Shinkei. 1985 Jun;37(6):575-81.

[A sudden-death in a case of Arnold-Chiari malformation (type I) with sleep
apnea].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwabuchi K, Miyauchi T, Kyuuma Y, Hosaka H, Kunimi Y, Yagishita S.

We presented a sudden-death case of Arnold-Chiari malformation (type 1)
accompanied with spina bifida and closed meningomyelocele. Polysomnography
revealed the increase of both central and mixed type apneas to compare with the
findings of typical Pickwikian syndrome.THE CASE: 30-year-old female without
obese or obstruction of upper air way. Spina bifida and closed meningomyelocele
at sacral portion were found at her birth. She had no treatment and had not been 
able to walk because of paralysis at low extremities. Since she was 25-year-old, 
she had had insomnia which accompanied by choked feelings, palpitations,
clumsiness of hands and anxiety. Snoring was light, and she had neither
respiratory disturbances nor hypersomnia during awake. She was admitted to our
hospital for treatment of decubitus. 2nd June, 1977, she was found acrocyanosis
during sleep and immediately she was resurrected. Physical examinations revealed 
there was no accounting for sudden respiratory arrest: the cardio-pulmonary
system was normal during awake and laboratory findings also failed to disclose
the episode. But she had slight dysfunctions of lower cranial nerves: fine
nystagmus according to the head-position, decreased gag reflex, and paresis in
the recurrence nerve of N.XII and etc. Angiography showed communicating
hydrocephalus. Though ventriculoperitoneal shunt operation was performed at 8th
June, sleep apnea could not be improved. Therefore we examined in order to
clarify her sleep apnea. She was not obese, we could not find any obstructions of
upper air way. Nocturnal polygraphy was performed at 8th July. The results were
summarized as follows: (1) Total sleep time was 293 minutes and numbers of sleep 
apnea were 134 times.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4041288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Surg Neurol. 1985 Jun;23(6):555-8.

Surgical treatment of spontaneous cerebellar hemorrhage.

Lui TN, Fairholm DJ, Shu TF, Chang CN, Lee ST, Chen HR.

Spontaneous cerebellar hemorrhage accounts for 5%-10% of intracerebral hemorrhage
in most series. From June 1979 to June 1983 we had 26 surgical cases of
spontaneous cerebellar hemorrhage. There were 15 men and 11 women. The typical
history was sudden onset of severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, and inability
to walk. Disturbance of consciousness was usually a late feature. Common signs
were truncal ataxia, nystagmus, conjugate eyeball deviation, small miotic pupils 
with or without light reflex and abducens palsy. Surgical indications are (a)
disturbance of consciousness, (b) signs of brainstem compression and (c) hematoma
with transverse diameter greater than 3 cm. The overall surgical mortality was
34.6%. Twenty-two patients underwent suboccipital craniectomy to evacuate
hematomas with or without ventriculostomy; mortality rate was 27%. Four patients 
underwent ventriculostomy only; mortality was 75%. Causes of death were (a)
brainstem failure, six patients; (b) airway obstruction, one patient; (c) chest
infection, one patient; (d) chronic renal failure, one patient.CONCLUSION: (a)
suboccipital craniectomy to evacuate the hematoma is the most effective procedure
where treatment is indicated; (b) the clinical recovery of the survivors show
that 31% return to work, 38% are moderately disabled but take care of themselves,
and 31% remain dependent on others; (c) deeply comatose patients may still
benefit from early operation.

PMID: 3992454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1985 Jun;33(3):146-56.

Experience with 350 crural arterial reconstructions: analysis and conclusions.

Largiadèr J.

Distal arterial reconstructions differ from those in the pelvic and femoral
region in the following 3 characteristics: wound healing is endangered by
ischemic tissue: vessel diameters are very small; poor outflow conditions can
reduce blood flow velocity in the long femoro-crural grafts thus increasing the
risk of reocclusion. On the basis of clinical and angiographic follow-up studies 
we investigated retrospectively various factors influencing the long-term
results: bypass material; poor outflow; technique of distal insertion; location
of the bypass graft.CONCLUSIONS: autologous vein provides the best, umbilical
vein the second best atrial substitute. Prosthetic material is less satisfactory.
AV-fistulae can be successfully employed to reduce peripheral outflow resistance;
short bypass lengths can be achieved by proximal end-to-side and distal
end-to-end anastomoses; orthotopic location of the bypass yields the best
long-term results.

PMID: 2411002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1985 May 24;97(11):497-500.

[Early or late cord clamping? A question of optimal time].

[Article in German]

Hohmann M.

Late cord clamping allows a redistribution of placental blood to the fetus within
3 minutes. A sufficient difference in hydrostatic pressure between placenta and
fetus is the prerequisite for placental transfusion. Placental transfusion is
reduced or diminished if the newborn baby is positioned above the placenta. Blood
volume and blood pressure of the fetus are elevated after placental transfusion. 
The increased blood volume correlates with the effective renal blood flow. There 
is no difference between cardiovascular parameters 6 hours post partum in infants
subjected to early or late clamping of the cord. Nevertheless, erythrocyte volume
and oxygen capacity remain high during the first days of life in infants with
late cord clamping.CONCLUSION: In normal deliveries the cord should be clamped
after 1 to 2 minutes. In premature infants, however, placental transfusion is
advantageous because the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome is lower with
late clamping. If the fetus is hypoxic in utero, redistribution of the blood and 
placental transfusion takes place already before birth to improve the oxygen
supply to the fetal tissue and resuscitatory measures can be undertaken
immediately following birth.

PMID: 4013344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. Anaesthesist. 1985 May;34(5):217-28.

[Aortofemoral bifurcation bypass--effect of anesthesia procedure (NLA, thoracic
continuous catheter peridural anesthesia) on circulation, respiration and
metabolism. Hemodynamic changes caused by peridural anesthesia and anesthesia
induction].

[Article in German]

Seeling W, Ahnefeld FW, Rosenberg G, Heinrich H, Spilker D.

In 50 patients scheduled for infrarenal aortic bypass surgery the cardiovascular 
effects of two anaesthetic regimes were investigated prior to surgery. A
Swan-Ganz-catheter was used for haemodynamic measurements. These patients, having
been randomized into two groups, were optimally volume loaded (PCWP 10 mmHg)
before anaesthesia. In 24 patients a thoracic epidural was induced with 12-15 ml 
0.25% plain bupivacaine. When segmental anaesthesia had extended from T4/5 to
L1/2 general anaesthesia was additionally applied (flunitrazepam 1.5-2 mg,
pancuronium bromide 0.1 mg/kg). In 26 patients neuroleptanaesthesia was induced
(droperidol 0.1-0.2 mg/kg, fentanyl 0.01 mg/kg, pancuronium bromide 0.1 mg/kg,
and thiopentone 100-150 mg. Haemodynamic measurements were made before injection 
into the epidural catheter, after complete spread of anaesthesia, before
commencing general anaesthesia and 10-15 min thereafter.RESULTS: Neither of the
two procedures were associated with severe haemodynamic alterations. In the
epidural group HR fell slightly during latency of complete spread and increased
to the same extend following general anaesthesia. The epidural caused MAP (104 to
88 mmHg), mean PAP (20 to 14 mmHg), PCWP (10 to 7.5 mmHg), and RAP (4.5 to 2.5
mmHg) to decrease moderately but no further changes were effected by the
subsequent general anaesthesia. SVR and PVR were not influenced by either
epidural or by general anaesthesia. CI (3.6 to 3.41 . min-1 . m-2), LVSWI (67 to 
52 p . m-1), and cardiac minute work index (55 to 40 J . min-1 . m-2) decreased
during latency of complete spread but were no further influenced by general
anaesthesia. The haemodynamic changes of neuroleptanaesthesia were almost
identical to those of the combined epidural-general anaesthesia. For the
operation which followed, a continuous infusion of 0.125 per cent plain
bupivacaine (0.25 ml/kg X h) via epidural catheter (in combination with
N2O/O2-anaesthesia) was sufficient for complete analgesia in the epidural group. 
These findings lead to the conclusion that a small bolus volume and a low
concentration of bupivacaine result in good anaesthesia while avoiding serious
haemodynamic alterations.

PMID: 4025792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1594. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1985 May-Jun;55(3):263-8.

[Cardiovascular manifestations in progressive systemic sclerosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Badui E, Robles E, Hernández C, García Rubí D, Mintz G.

We studied 20 consecutive patients with progressive systemic sclerosis from the
cardiological point of view through non invasive methods. Sixteen (80%) patients 
had some kind of cardiovascular complications as shown by any of the used
methods. a)SYMPTOMS: fourteen (70%) referred some type of cardiac symptoms. b)
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: eleven (55%) had an abnormal cardiac examination and 10
(50%) had arterial hypertension. c) Electrocardiogram: sixteen (80%) were
abnormal. Among them, three cases (15%) had bifascicular block, complication
considered up till now as rare. d) Cardiac X Ray Series: Fourteen (70%) were
abnormal mainly due to pulmonary fibrosis (55%). e) Echocardiogram: 45% of them
showed some kind of abnormality.

PMID: 2932080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Behav Neural Biol. 1985 May;43(3):260-73.

Factors that influence test session performance measured 0, 3, or 6 h after
inhibitory avoidance training.

Izquierdo I, Netto CA.

Rats were trained in a step-down inhibitory avoidance task using a 0.3-mA, 60-Hz 
footshock, and were tested at 0, 3, and 6 h from training. Retrieval scores (test
session minus training session step-down latencies) were higher in control groups
at 0 than at 3 or 6 h. Test session performance at 0 h was unaffected by the
pretraining ip injection of ACTH1-24 (0.2 microgram/kg), epinephrine-HCl (5.0
micrograms/kg), human beta-endorphin (1.0 microgram/kg), or naloxone-HCl (0.4
mg/kg); or by a pretreatment with dexamethasone phosphate (2.0 mg/kg in divided
doses 24 and 12 h before training); or by anterior or posterior hypothalamic
deafferentation. Test session performance at 0 h was depressed by prior bilateral
transection of the fornix, which suggests it depends on hippocampal function. The
effect of the fornix lesion on test session performance at 0 h was not
counteracted by ACTH, epinephrine, or beta-endorphin administration. When animals
were tested 3 h after training, the post-training administration of ACTH and
epinephrine caused an enhancement of test session performance; neither
post-training beta-endorphin or naloxone, nor pretest ACTH, epinephrine, or
beta-endorphin administration, had any effect in these animals. At 6 h from
training, the post-training facilitatory action of ACTH and epinephrine was still
present and the post-training depressant effect of beta-endorphin and the
post-training facilitatory effect of naloxone became manifest, and so did the
naloxone-reversible pretest facilitation induced by ACTH, epinephrine, or
beta-endorphin. The influence of post-training naloxone or pretest beta-endorphin
on retrieval scores at 6 h was not observed in the fornix-lesioned animals.IN
CONCLUSION: Test session performance of this task at 0 h from training is
regulated by different mechanisms than those which regulate test session
performance at 3 or 6 h; in particular, it is less susceptible to modulation by
the drugs used in the present study and it depends on the fornix; At least two
major classes of modulatory factors influence retrieval scores at later times:
consolidation-enhancing effects of ACTH and epinephrine, which become manifest at
3 h, and mechanisms related to beta-endorphin, which involve a form of state
dependency and only become manifest at 6 h from training.

PMID: 3022704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1985 May;(195):178-84.

Psychologic factors in low-back-pain disability.

Frymoyer JW, Rosen JC, Clements J, Pope MH.

Biomechanical tests, physical examination, spinal radiographs, a modified
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI), and a psychologic health
inventory derived from the Hopkins Symptom Checklist were applied in 321 randomly
selected men, ages 18-55. Each subject was evaluated for prior and current
low-back pain (LBP) complaints by use of a modification of the McGill pain
questionnaire. Subjects were then categorized as having no LBP (n = 106, 33%),
moderate LBP (n = 144, 44.8%), and severe LBP (n = 71, 22.1%). Subjects were
further subcategorized as not disabled (defined as equal or less than seven days 
of work lost in the previous year) and disabled (work loss greater than seven
days in the prior year).RESULTS: cumulative scores of the Hopkins Checklist
showed that a mean score for no LBP equaled 2.5 +/- 2.9; moderate LBP was 4.3 +/-
3.2; and severe LBP was 4.6 +/- 3 (p = .0000). The disabled group was
significantly different on both MMPI and Hopkins Checklist. The 20 disabled
subjects had significant elevations of hypochondriasis (p = .0006) and hysteria
(p = .005) when compared with nondisabled subjects with LBP. The mean score for
disabled subjects on the Hopkins Checklist was 7.35 +/- 4.49, while the score was
4.17 +/- 3.15 (p = .0001) for the nondisabled subjects with LBP. In the general
male population, patients with disabling LBP conditions form a distinctive
subgroup comparable to those patients seen in selected LBP clinics.

PMID: 3156708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 May;12(5):1111-8.

[Randomized controlled study of methyl
6-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-6-deoxy-alpha-D-glucopyranoside (MCNU) in
comparison with busulfan for chronic myelogenous leukemia].

[Article in Japanese]

Masaoka T, Kimura K, Miyazaki T, Hirota Y, Nakamura T, Yasunaga K, Ohkubo H,
Okamoto Y, Fujitake H, Kitani T, et al.

In a randomized controlled study, the efficacy of MCNU was compared with that of 
Busulfan in 95 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. Of the patients
studied, 95 were entered among whom 77 were evaluable. These comprised 40 for an 
MCNU group (M) and 37 for a Busulfan group (B). No significant difference was
found statistically between the two groups with regard to background factors,
i.e., male-to-female ratio, age, white blood cell counts, platelet counts,
splenomegaly or Ph1 chromosome.RESULTS: CR rate was 83% for M and 68% for B, and 
the number of days to CR was 88 for M and 155 for B. Blastic crisis was noted in 
31% of M patients and 33% of B patients and the number of days to blastic crisis 
was 542.6 and 581.9, respectively for the two groups. Deaths accounted for 28%
and 29% for each of M and B. Side effects were observed in 31% of M cases and 15%
of B cases. A significant difference was observed only in the period to CR. MCNU 
showed almost equal efficacy to that of Busulfan but was superior to Busulfan in 
patients who required rapid response. Side effects were mild and transient.
Despite its delivery by intravenous injection, the administration of MCNU is
deemed convenient, considering the long interval possible between treatments,
being comparable in this respect with oral Busulfan. MCNU therefore seems a very 
effective drug for chronic myelogenous leukemia.

PMID: 3888116  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Pediatr Med Chir. 1985 May-Jun;7(3):397-403.

[Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Study and follow-up of 100 cases].

[Article in Italian]

Pocecco M, Tonini G, Pizzul MG, Vinci A.

Clinical records of one hundred pediatric patients affected by IDDM have been
analyzed. All the patients have been followed since the beginning of the disease 
and they have had a check up on average of four months (weight, height, blood
pressure, HbA1, C peptide, Triglyceridemia, renal function were evaluated). The
method of home-self-monitoring was applied. After four years, and periodically
thereafter, microvascular abnormalities were evaluated in all the patients by
fluorescein angiography. Neuropathy was evaluated only in symptomatic patients by
peripheral nerve conduction. The average follow up period was 6.1 years (range
1-20).RESULTS: the onset of the disease was expressed in 11% of the cases by
coma, in 14% by ketoacidosis, in the remaining cases by hyperglycemia only. The
severity of initial symptoms has progressively and significantly decreased in the
last years. In 7% of the subjects diabetes affected more members of the same
family (4 couples of siblings and 3 couples of parent-child). An infection
preceding the onset of the disease was present in the history of 23% of the
cases. Islet cell antibodies were found in 83% of the studied cases at the onset 
of the disease. In 80 out of the 100 patients a detailed history has been
obtained about the occurrence of ketoacidosis episodes after the first admission 
and about the occurrence of severe hypoglycemic crises (seizures and/or coma).
17% of the patients presented at least one ketoacidosis episode after the first
admission (the main cause was infection before 12 years of age, an emotional
problem thereafter).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3939258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Pediatr Res. 1985 May;19(5):441-5.

Effect of infant age on aminopyrine breath test results.

Shulman RJ, Irving CS, Boutton TW, Wong WW, Nichols BL, Klein PD.

The aminopyrine breath test has been used in adults as a measure of hepatic
N-demethylase activity. In order to study maturational changes in enzyme
function, 13C aminopyrine (2 mg/kg) was administered orally to infants (n = 16)
between the ages of 1 and 38 wk. Breath samples were collected for 6 h after
administration of the labeled aminopyrine for the measurement of 13CO2
enrichment. Using a number of different scoring methods to quantitate 13CO2
elimination of breath, demethylation of aminopyrine was found to be positively
correlated to age. By 20 wk of age, some infants had rates of elimination similar
to those measured in adults. Absorption was excluded as a limiting variable,
because no improvement in oxidation rates was found when the aminopyrine was
readministered as an intravenous bolus. Changes in nutritional status and route
of feeding (enteral versus parenteral) did not prevent the effect of maturation
on aminopyrine elimination.CONCLUSIONS: 1) maturational differences are seen in
the metabolism of aminopyrine; 2) these differences may reflect immaturity of
N-demethylase activity or diversion of the liberated formaldehyde into
biosynthetic rather than oxidative pathways.

PMID: 3923422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Respir Care. 1985 May;30(5):334-8.

A model for the evaluation of respiratory therapy program admissions criteria.

Flanigan KS.

Attrition in respiratory therapy programs is a waste of both human and economic
resources and may be one cause of the current shortage of qualified personnel.
Poor academic performance has been shown to be the leading cause of program
attrition. The purposes of this study were to establish the predictive abilities 
of aptitude and performance measures for classroom and laboratory performance in 
a respiratory therapy program and to describe a methodology for the development
of academic admissions criteria.METHODS: The preprogram college cumulative grade 
point average (pPGPA), the preprogram science-mathematics grade point average
(S-M GPA), the American College Test (ACT) composite, and four ACT subtest scores
of 39 graduates of The Ohio State University Respiratory Therapy Division were
compared to their program grade point average (PGPA). We applied a multiple
regression analysis and derived regression equations.
RESULTS: Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that the S-M GPA is the most
significant predictor of program academic performance (P less than or equal to
0.05). The derived regression equation was applied to calculate the minimum S-M
GPA for admission by using the standard error of the estimate (SEE) of the
regression equation and the mean minimum acceptable PGPA at a 95% confidence
interval. For those students who have met the minimum S-M GPA, we have
experienced no academic attrition.
CONCLUSION: Multiple regression analysis of student data and the derived
regression equations may be used to determine program-specific admissions
criteria.

PMID: 10315660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. Respir Care. 1985 May;30(5):323-7.

A role for the respiratory therapist in flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy.

Coppolo DP, Brienza LT, Pratt DS, May JJ.

All bronchoscopies in our institution are performed by physician-respiratory
therapist teams. The therapist instructs the patient, anesthetizes him, does the 
biopsies, and prepares specimens for laboratory testing.METHODS: We undertook a
retrospective study of our performance to evaluate the safety, yield, and cost of
this system.
RESULTS: Of 216 procedures evaluated, therapist-performed biopsies provided a
specific diagnosis in 55%. When a tumor-like mass was seen directly, biopsies
were positive 95.7% of the time. No procedure was associated with death.
Complications included fever in about 9%, hoarseness in 2%, hemoptysis in 1%, and
pneumothorax in one procedure (0.5%). Our institutional costs for flexible
fiberoptic bronchoscopy by a physician-respiratory therapist team were only 34%
of what they would have been if the same procedures had been performed in the
operating room. RESULTS performed were comparable to all others reported in the
literature.
CONCLUSION: This study clearly demonstrates that respiratory therapists can
provide high quality, low cost, safe bronchoscopic assistance to pulmonary
internists.

PMID: 10315659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1985 Apr-Jun;22(2):119-25.

The application of insulin using the jet injector DG-77.

Resman Z, Metelko Z, Skrabalo Z.

To avoid soreness and psychic stress following insulin injections by needle and
syringe, the new jet injector DG-77 was used. It is a portable percutaneous
pressure device with a spring, simple to operate which can be used to apply two
different types of insulin. Thirty type 1 and type 2a diabetic patients
participated in the study (10 females, 20 males). Insulin was applied using a
needle and the DG-77 device in the same region of the body. A standardized
questionnaire was compiled concerning simplicity of application, soreness, wish
to possess the device and the possibility of acquiring it. The results obtained
regarding the type of application were as follows: traditional way: glycemia: at 
07(00)-8.5, 10(00)-10.5, 13(00)-7.4 mmol/l; insulinemia: at 07(00)-7.5,
10(00)-20.2, 13(00)-21.0 mU/l; jet injector: glycemia - at 07(00)-8.4,
10(00)-10.4, 13(00)-8.4 mmol/l; insulinemia: at 07(00)-2.8, 10(00)-12.3,
13(00)-20.0 mU/l, which was not statistically significant; for glycemia: at
10(00), t = 0.110, p greater than 0.05, at 13(00), t = 1.88, p greater than 0.05,
and for insulinemia at 10(00), t = 0.82, p greater than 0.05, and at 13(00), t = 
1.23, p greater than 0.05.IN CONCLUSION: 1) blood glucose and insulin control
with the jet injector administration of insulin was equally successful as with
the standard insulin application; 2) incidence of hematoma was not significant;
3) eighty-five percent of patients prefer the injector due to its simplicity of
application, reduced soreness and would wish to possess the device.

PMID: 3907229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Diabetes. 1985 Apr;34(4):373-9.

Anti-islet cellular and humoral immunity, T-cell subsets, and thymic function in 
type I diabetes.

Quiniou-Debrie MC, Debray-Sachs M, Dardenne M, Czernichow P, Assan R, Bach JF.

Peripheral lymphocyte subsets were enumerated, using OKT monoclonal sera, in 56
diabetic (43 adults and 13 children) and 20 control subjects. Concomitantly,
anti-islet humoral and cellular immunity was tested in vitro and serum thymulin
level was measured. In the newly diagnosed patients (less than 30 days; 18
cases), the percent of OKT4+ and OKT8+ cells was reduced, the OKT8+ depletion
being particularly pronounced in children. Tests for cellular immunity were
positive in 83% of the newly diagnosed diabetic subjects and anti-islet cytotoxic
antibodies were detected in 50%. The serum thymulin level was decreased in 2
children. Later on in the course of the disease, a marked reduction in OKT3+,
OKT4+, and OKT8+ cell percentage was observed, the mean OKT4/OKT8 ratio being
normal or lower than normal. The percent of antibody-positive sera rose to 64%,
while anti-islet cellular immunity was detectable in 54%. When extrapancreatic
manifestations of probable autoimmune nature were present, anti-islet cellular
immunity was detected in 100% of cases, accompanied by cytotoxic antibodies in
54%.CONCLUSIONS: (1) the magnitude of T-cell depletion and/or imbalance in
diabetic subjects depended mainly on the duration of the disease, (2) anti-islet 
cellular immunity was the anomaly most frequently detectable, and (3) a decrease 
in serum thymulin level was infrequently detected.

PMID: 3882501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Dis Colon Rectum. 1985 Apr;28(4):246-53.

Myoelectric and motor activity of the terminal ileum after pelvic pouch for
ulcerative colitis.

Pescatori M.

The electrical and motor activity of the terminal ileum after proctocolectomy and
ileoanal reservoir was evaluated in seven patients who had undergone surgery for 
ulcerative colitis. Recordings were carried out with an intraluminal probe under 
fasting conditions, during stepwise distention of the pouch, in the postprandial 
state and after administration of Prostigmine and bisacodyl. Ileal sensitivity
was also studied. Phase III of the interdigestive myoelectric motor complex, when
detectable (four patients), was characterized by regular spike bursts
superimposed on slow waves at a frequency of 9 cycles per minute. Two different
types of motor patterns were observed: short phasic waves lasting 2 to 6 seconds 
and long tonic waves lasting up to 2 minutes. In most cases, the amplitude and
frequency of the pressure events were higher in the efferent limb than in the
reservoir. Electrical activity of the surrounding rectal muscle and striated
sphincters was also recorded. When distended to the maximum tolerable volume, the
reservoir showed spike bursts propagated aborally at a frequency of 15 per
minute, leading to large propulsive waves. An overall increase of spike activity 
was observed after a meal, which did not affect the slow waves. Neostigmine
caused an irregular increase of electrical and motor activity, more evident in
the efferent limb. Bisacodyl, used to test the functional integrity of the
myenteric plexus, elicited strong propulsive contractions and urgency. Leakage
did not occur frequently either at rest or under stimuli. Onset of sensation was 
elicited with volumes of 271 +/- 149 ml (Mean +/- SD) in the reservoir and 17 +/-
6 ml in the efferent loop of small bowel (P less than 0.001).IN CONCLUSION: 1)
most of the electrical and motor properties of the terminal ileum are retained
after surgery; 2) due to its large capacity, the reservoir acts as a storage
organ; and 3) overall motility is reduced in the pouch when compared with the
distal ileum and propulsion in the triple-loop system is opposed by the activity 
of the anal sphincters.

PMID: 3979227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. Hinyokika Kiyo. 1985 Apr;31(4):665-9.

[Ectopic ureter without urinary incontinence despite ureteric orifice in the
vestibulum: report of one case].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujii A, Yasuno H, Arakawa S, Kamidono S, Umezu K.

This is one case of ectopic ureter which lacked urinary incontinence despite
ureteric orifice in the vestibulum.CASE: A 20-year-old woman complained of
miction pain. On examination, we found a small orifice in the vestibulum. DIP
revealed slight hydronephrosis in the left contracted kidney and normal pyelogram
in the right kidney. On cystoscopy, the bilateral ureteral orifices were normal, 
but we found the head of a catheter placed in the orifice of the vestibulum was
passing under the mucosa of the bladder. The abnormal lumen was recognized by
introducing an opaque medium through a catheter placed into the orifice of the
vestibulum. The diagnosis was an abnormal left ureteral ectopic opening into the 
vestibulum with left complete duplication of renal pelvis and ureter. Left
heminephro-ureterectomy was performed. Some discussions about the ectopic
ureteral orifice without incontinence were conducted.

PMID: 4036742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. J Electrocardiol. 1985 Apr;18(2):135-40.

Cycle length change during reciprocating tachycardia in patients with
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.

Shimomura K, Ohe T, Yorozu K, Kobayashi S, Funahashi T, Matsuhisa M, Kamakura S, 
Sato I.

Cycle Length (CL) changes during reciprocating tachycardia (RT) were examined in 
82 consecutive patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) during
electrophysiological studies. The significant CL changes (sudden and greater than
30 msec.) were found in 21 of 82 patients (26%). Thirteen patients had a manifest
WPW and eight had a concealed WPW. An accessory pathway (AP) was located in the
left side in 14 patients, the right side in four patients and the septum in two
patients. One patient had multiple AP's. The development of ipsilateral bundle
branch block during RT was responsible for CL changes in 11 patients. The sudden 
shift between fast and slow pathways in atrioventricular node (AVN) during RT was
responsible for CL changes in two patients. Alternating CL changes during RT were
found in eight patients. In five of them, alternating CL changes could be
explained by physiological properties of a single AVN pathway. In the remaining
three patients, the onset of 2:1 block in a fast pathway with 1:1 conduction in a
slow pathway of the AVN may be responsible for CL changes. In one patient with
multiple AP's the shift from one re-entrant circuit to the other was responsible 
for CL changes.IN CONCLUSION: 1) CL changes during RT are not uncommon in
patients with WPW. 2) Several different mechanisms are responsible for CL
changes.

PMID: 3998642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. No Shinkei Geka. 1985 Apr;13(4):417-23.

[Experimental study of brain lesions after combined coaxial exposure to
high-peaked pulse wave form CO2 and Nd: YAG lasers on the brain].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsuyumu M, Verasques G, Yamazaki S, Kuroiwa T, Suzuki R, Takei H, Suzuki K, Inaba
Y.

The CO2 laser is useful for cutting and vaporization but not for coagulation and 
hemostasis. On the contrary, YAG laser is effective for coagulation and
hemostasis but not for cutting. The purpose of this study is to examine the
effect of the exposure of combined, coaxial CO2 and YAG laser on the animal brain
to supplement the advantages and draw-backs of each other. To compare these
results, each of non-combined pulse wave form CO2 and YAG lasers was employed
separately.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The lasers in this study were pulse wave form
CO2 and YAG lasers, employed separately or simultaneously using 130 YZ of Nihon
Infrared Industries Company. Japanese white rabbits were anesthetized with
pentobarbital. Fronto-parietal burr holes were made, the dura was removed and
then Evans blue solution was injected intravenously. The lasers were employed to 
the cerebral cortex without great vessels using a micromanipulator attached to
the operative microscope with a distance of 30 cm. The spot size was 700 mu for
CO2 laser and 1200 mu for YAG laser. The first experiment was to see the effect
of nine combinations of simultaneous coaxial CO2 of 2, 4 and 8 watts and YAG
lasers of 10, 20 and 40 watts, 1 sec on the brain. In the second experiment, also
combining two lasers, the exposure time of YAG laser was elongated from 1 or 2
seconds into 2 or 4 seconds and the arrangement of powers was the same as that of
the first experiment. The lesions were thus made in 18 different
conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3927180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1608. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1985 Apr;33(4):238-42.

[Serologic diagnosis of hydatidosis. 235 cases].

[Article in French]

Nozais JP, Danis M, Loisy M, Gentilini M.

229 hydatidosis and 6 multivesicular echinococcosis have been studied by
hemagglutination test (HA) and immunoelectro-diffusion test (IED).RESULTS:
hepatic hydatidosis: 177 patients. The HA test is positive in 82%, IED test is
positive in 92%. Pulmonary hydatidosis: 46 patients (20%). The HA test is
positive in 61,5% and IED test is positive in 80%. HA and IED tests are negatives
in 6 patients. The others localisations are: hepato-pulmonary hydatidosis, 28
patients, cerebral hydatidosis, 10 patients, splenic or renal hydatidosis, 8
patients, osseous hydatidosis, 5 patients, cardiac hydatidosis, 3 patients,
ocular hydatidosis, 2 patients and pancreatic or muscular hydatidosis, 1 patient.
The negativation or the decrease of antibodies after treatment in 38 patients are
obtained in 2 or 3 years. An increase of antibodies take place in case of
relapse.

PMID: 3925424  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Phlebologie. 1985 Apr-Jun;38(2):249-53.

[Static disorders or venous pathology of the foot?].

[Article in French]

Miolane A.

Three types of disorder observed in the foot may have either a mechanical or a
vascular aetiology. They are: A) Painful or tired legs, caused by: eversion,
inversion or arch collapse of one or both feet.TREATMENT: corrective or
compensatory soles depending on the joint mobility and the integrity of the skin.
B) Metatarsalgia due to static disorders, incorrect shoes or vascular disorders.
TREATMENT: orthopaedic soles, appropriate shoes. C) Burning pain in the toes
exacerbated by heat, relieved by cold, due to claw or lateral deformity of the
toes or compression of the forefoot and toes (shoes, stockings).
TREATMENT: appropriate shoes, protective or corrective orthoplasties.

PMID: 4023078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. Z Kardiol. 1985 Apr;74(4):238-44.

[Dilatation of epicardial coronary vessels by intravenous diltiazem in patients
with coronary heart disease].

[Article in German]

Bonzel T, Wollschläger H, Löllgen H, Münzel T, Zeiher A, Tarnowska R, Wehrle B,
Just H.

Coronary diameters and central hemodynamics were measured in 22 patients with
stable coronary artery disease before and after 20 mg of intravenous diltiazem.
Coronary diameters from high quality biplane coronary angiograms were calculated 
as mean values after caliper measurements of identical segments. Measurements
were made in angiographically normal and abnormal proximal, middle and distal
vessel segments. Central hemodynamics showed a significant decrease for heart
rate, mean aortic pressure and peripheral resistance (p less than 0.001).
Coronary diameters increased between 2 and 16% (proximal or distal segments).
Diameter increases were statistically significant for all segments (p less than
0.001) except for proximal atherosclerotic segments. These hemodynamic and
diameter changes were seen after 5, 10 and 20 minutes.CONCLUSION: Intravenous
diltiazem shows an acute coronary dilative effect in patients with stable
coronary artery disease. This effect is regarded as one of the essential
antianginal actions of the drug.

PMID: 4002778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. Am J Ophthalmol. 1985 Mar 15;99(3):282-90.

Comparison of survival rates for patients with uveal melanoma after treatment
with proton beam irradiation or enucleation.

Seddon JM, Gragoudas ES, Albert DM, Hsieh CC, Polivogianis L, Friedenberg GR.

We compared survival experiences for three groups with uveal melanoma: (1) 120
patients treated by proton beam irradiation from 1975 to 1981; (2) 235 patients
treated by enucleation from 1953 to 1973 (enucleation group 1); and (3) 161
patients treated by enucleation from 1975 to 1981 (enucleation group 2). The
following variables were predictive of melanoma-related deaths.TREATMENT: rate
ratio (ratio of the rate of death for one category of the variable relative to
the rate of death for another category) of 6.32 (95% confidence interval 1.70 to 
23.51) for enucleation group 1 vs proton beam, 3.06 (0.81 to 11.54) for
enucleation group 2 vs proton beam, and 2.07 (1.05 to 4.07) for enucleation group
1 vs enucleation group 2. Size: rate ratio of 3.61 (1.51 to 8.64) for large (16+ 
mm) vs small (less than 11 mm) tumors.
LOCATION: rate ratio of 3.19 (1.56 to 6.53) for tumors anterior vs posterior to
the equator. When death from all causes was evaluated as the outcome, the
estimated rate ratios were similar. When melanoma metastasis was evaluated as the
outcome, the estimated rate ratios were reduced in magnitude.

PMID: 2983558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1612. Acta Morphol Neerl Scand. 1985 Mar;23(1):35-46.

A mesoscopic technique for the study of the development of the peripheral system 
in rat foetuses.

Bloot J, Boekelaar AB, Groen GJ, Baljet B.

In order to study the morphogenesis of the nervous system in the rat an
acetylcholinesterase in toto method for staining nervous tissue in rat foetuses
was developed.PROCEDURE: Rat foetuses of 14-22 days are fixed "en bloc" for 24
hours in a cold sucrose-formol solution. Fixed specimens are rinsed for 2 days in
cold 0.22 M sucrose in a sodiumcacodylate buffer (pH 7.2). The specimens are cut 
(mid-)sagittally with the aid of a razor-blade, and incubated in a medium of
acetylthiocholine iodide in acetate buffer (pH 5.0). Then, dehydration in
glycerine/water mixtures of increasing glycerine content follows. The specimens
may be stored in pure glycerine or embedded in epoxy-resin blocks and can be
studied under a binocular dissecting microscope. In using this in toto staining
method both the continuity of the central and peripheral parts of the nervous
system as well as details up to the level of individual perikarya and motor
endplates are preserved. With this mesoscopic method the three-dimensional
architecture of the peripheral nervous system and its topological relations to
other structures can be studies in one specimen. The exact procedure and the
results as well as a method for embedding specimens in epoxy-resin blocks for
teaching purposes are described. The advantages of this mesoscopic staining
method for foetuses are discussed.

PMID: 3890472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1985 Mar;34(3):133-6.

[Volume and regional contraction of the left ventricle studied with venous
injection in subtraction angiography].

[Article in French]

Rasoamanambelo L, Doriot PA, Fleisch M, Chatelain P, Noble J, Bopp P, Rutishauser
W.

The end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, the left ventricular ejection
fraction, and segmental contraction of the left ventricle (5 areas) were
determined at rest in 31 patients using two methods: conventional
cineventriculography (as reference) and digital subtraction angiography by venous
injection (the inferior vena cava).RESULTS: the volumes and ejection fraction
obtained by digital subtraction angiography were reliable, though slightly less
accurate than conventional ventriculography. Quantification of segmental
contraction was satisfactory in the apical, anterolateral, and anteroinferior
portions. It was less satisfactory in the posteroinferior portion with
questionable reliability in the diaphragmatic portion. Qualitative dynamic
assessment of contraction was satisfactory in most patients.

PMID: 3890677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. Blood. 1985 Mar;65(3):655-62.

Effects of in vitro purging with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide on the
hematopoietic and microenvironmental elements of human bone marrow.

Siena S, Castro-Malaspina H, Gulati SC, Lu L, Colvin MO, Clarkson BD, O'Reilly
RJ, Moore MA.

We describe the effects of 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC) on the
hematopoietic and stromal elements of human bone marrow. Marrow cells were
exposed to 4-HC and then assayed for mixed (CFU-Mix), erythroid (BFU-E),
granulomonocytic (CFU-GM), and marrow fibroblast (CFU-F) colony-forming cells and
studied in the long-term marrow culture (LTMC) system. The inhibition of colony
formation by 4-HC was dose and cell-concentration dependent. The cell most
sensitive to 4-HC was CFU-Mix (ID50 31 mumol/L) followed by BFU-E (ID50 41
mumol/L), CFU-GM (ID50 89 mumol/L), and CFU-F (ID50 235 mumol/L). In LTMC, a
dose-related inhibition of CFU-GM production was noted. Marrows treated with 300 
mumol/L 4-HC were completely depleted of CFU-GM but were able to generate these
progenitors in LTMC. Marrow stromal progenitors giving rise to stromal layers in 
LTMC, although less sensitive to 4-HC cytotoxicity, were damaged by 4-HC also in 
a dose-related manner. Marrows treated with 4-HC up to 300 mumol/L, gave rise to 
stromal layers composed of fibroblasts, endothelial cells, adipocytes, and
macrophages. Cocultivation experiments with freshly isolated autologous
hematopoietic cells showed that stromal layers derived from 4-HC-treated marrows 
were capable of sustaining the long-term production of CFU-GM as well as
controls.IN CONCLUSION: (1) Hematopoietic progenitors cells, CFU-Mix, BFU-E, and 
CFU-GM, are highly sensitive to 4-HC, whereas marrow stromal progenitor cells are
relatively resistant. (2) Marrows treated with 300 mumol/L 4-HC that are depleted
of CFU-Mix, BFU-E, and CFU-GM can generate CFU-GM in LTMC, suggesting that most
primitive hematopoietic stem cells (not represented by CFU-Mix) are spared by
4-HC up to this dose. (3) Consequently, the above colony assays are not suitable 
tools for predicting pluripotent stem cell survival after 4-HC treatment in
vitro.

PMID: 3971044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1985 Mar;12(3 Pt 1):524-9.

[In vitro sensitivity test of anti-neoplastic agents and their enhancement by
biscoclaurine alkaloid].

[Article in Japanese]

Sekiya S, Mogi M, Tanigawa S, Hayashi H, Uchiyama T, Okayasu M.

We tried an in vitro sensitivity test for the purpose of examining the effect of 
anti-neoplastic agents and their enhancement by Biscolaurine Alkaloid
(Cepharanthin). Methods, HeLa cells were synchronized by excess of thymidine and 
hydroxyurea, and resuspended in Eagle's MEM with 10% FCS. The cells were mixed
with Mitomycin C or Bleomycin and added to the wells of a microtiter plate. When 
required, Cepharanthin (the effect of this drug is considered to change the
plasma membrane liquidity) was added to the medium, and then cultured for 24
hours in a CO2 incubator. After culture, each well received 3H-thymidine, and was
incubated for 8 hours. The cells were harvested for the assay of
3H-thymidine.RESULTS: MMC or BLM suppressed the uptake of 3H-thymidine in
relation to its concentration. MMC or BLM with various concentrations of
Cepharanthin showed strong suppression compared with the same concentrations of
MMC or BLM alone. From the above results, this experimental method is regarded as
an useful model for selecting sensitive anti-neoplastic agents. In addition,
Cepharanthin showed enhancing effects on anti-neoplastic agents.

PMID: 2408575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Hum Toxicol. 1985 Mar;4(2):159-68.

Metabolism of some industrial uranium tetrafluorides after deposition in the rat 
lung.

Stradling GN, Stather JW, Strong JC, Sumner SA, Towndrow CG, Moody JC, Lennox A, 
Sedgwick D, Cooke N.

Two commercially produced natural uranium tetrafluorides were administered to
rats either by inhalation or direct injection into the lungs.THE RESULTS: show
that, for both materials uranium is cleared rapidly from the lungs, much of it to
the blood, show that the distribution of uranium amongst body tissues, and the
fraction of the systemic content excreted in urine, is similar to that obtained
after the administration of U(VI) bicarbonate, show that the transportability of 
uranium is much greater than in previously reported studies with other
preparations of uranium tetrafluoride, suggest that lung radioactivity counting
measurements would be of limited value for interpreting human exposures, indicate
that for setting exposure limits these tetrafluorides should be considered
moderately transportable compounds (ICRP inhalation class W).

PMID: 4007879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. J Clin Invest. 1985 Mar;75(3):954-60.

Vitamin D-dependent rickets type II. Defective induction of 25-hydroxyvitamin
D3-24-hydroxylase by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in cultured skin fibroblasts.

Gamblin GT, Liberman UA, Eil C, Downs RW Jr, DeGrange DA, Marx SJ.

1,25(OH)2D3 induces 25(OH)D3-24-hydroxylase (24-OHase) in cultured skin
fibroblasts from normal subjects. We evaluated 24-OHase induction by 1,25(OH)2D3 
in skin fibroblasts from 10 normal subjects and from four unrelated patients with
hereditary resistance to 1,25(OH)2D or vitamin D-dependent rickets type II (DD
II). Fibroblasts were preincubated with varying concentrations of 1,25(OH)2D3 for
15 h and were then incubated with 0.5 microM [3H]25(OH)D3 at 37 degrees C for 30 
min; lipid extracts of the cells were analyzed for [3H]24,25(OH)2D3 by high
performance liquid chromatography and periodate oxidation. Apparent maximal
[3H]24,25(OH)2D3 production in normal cell lines was 9 pmol/10(6) cells per 30
min and occurred after induction with 10(-8) M 1,25(OH)2D3. 24-OHase induction
was detectable in normal fibroblasts at approximately 3 X 10(-10) M 1,25(OH)2D3. 
[3H]24,25(OH)2D3 formation after exposure to 1,25(OH)2D3 was abnormal in
fibroblasts from all four patients with DD II. In fibroblasts from two patients
with DD II, [3H]24,25(OH)2D3 formation was unmeasurable (below 0.2 pmol/10(6)
cells per 30 min) at 1,25(OH)2D3 concentrations up to 10(-6) M. Fibroblasts from 
the other two patients with DD II required far higher than normal concentrations 
of 1,25(OH)2D3 for detectable [3H]24,25(OH)2D3 induction. In one,
[3H]24,25(OH)2D3 production reached 2.9 pmol/10(6) cells per 30 min at 10(-6) M
1,25(OH)2D3 (30% normal maximum at 10(-6) M 1,25(OH)2D3). In the other,
[3H]24,25(OH)2D3 production achieved normal levels, 7.3 pmol/10(6) cells per 30
min after 10(-6) M 1,25(OH)2D3. The two patients whose cells had a detectable
24-OHase induction by 1,25(OH)2D3 showed a calcemic response to high doses of
calciferols in vivo. Our current observations correlate with these two patients' 
responsiveness to calciferols in vivo and suggest that their target organ defects
can be partially or completely overcome with extremely high concentrations of
1,25(OH)2D3. The two patients whose cells showed no detectable 24-OHase induction
in vitro failed to show a calcemic response to high doses of calciferols in
vivo.IN CONCLUSION: (a) the measurement of 24-OHase induction by 1,25(OH)2D3 in
cultured skin fibroblasts is a sensitive in vitro test for defective genes in the
1,25(OH)2D effector pathway. (b) This assay provides a useful tool for
characterizing the target tissue defects in DD II and predicting response to
calciferol therapy.

PMCID: PMC423634
PMID: 3872316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. J Trauma. 1985 Mar;25(3):197-202.

Unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine: a 10-year experience at
Sacré-Coeur Hospital.

Jodoin A, Dupuis P, Fraser M, Beaumont P.

In a 10-year period, 108 unstable fractures involving the thoracolumbar junction 
(T11 to L2) were treated. This study evaluates the influence of the different
treatments on the rate of complication, reduction of the fracture, and
neurological recovery.METHODS: mechanism of injury, initial treatment and delay, 
neurologic deficit, operative findings, and duration of hospitalization were
recorded. X-rays were reviewed for classification of fracture, measurement of
deformity, and for instability scoring according to White and Panjabi's criteria.
Seventy-seven patients were examined and nine more interviewed by telephone.
RESULTS: a flexion-rotation injury occurred in 65% and a burst-fracture in 29%. A
laminectomy was performed in 30 patients and Harrington instrumentation and
fusion in 71 patients. Sixteen patients were treated conservatively. Fifty-five
patients presented either a complete or partial neurological deficit.
Seventy-five complications were noted and were more frequent in the laminectomy
group. The instrumented group showed a clear tendency for earlier ambulation and 
discharge and pain level was found to be less. An increased residual deformity
was found in patients treated by laminectomy, short fusion, and by nonsurgical
modality. The neurologic recovery in the laminectomy and the nonlaminectomy group
was not significantly different. Spinal realignment was better in the group where
an instrumentation of five levels or more was performed and where posterior
elements were not removed by laminectomy.

PMID: 3981669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1619. Mycotoxin Res. 1985 Mar;1(1):37-40. doi: 10.1007/BF03191953.

Patulin degradation in saccharomyces cerevisiae: Sensitive mutants.

Thonart P(1), Sumbu ZL, Bechet J.

Author information: 
(1)Faculté des Sciences Agronomiques de l'Etat, 5800, Gembloux, Belgique.

CONCLUSION: The present experiments (sensitive mutants and transient inhibition
of growth) are compatible with the synthesis of an inductible detoxifying
substance in the wild type strain. This substance could be glutathione because
glutathione detoxification scheme essentially involves properties of the SH group
and it is well known that patulin reacts with sulfhy dril groups.Studies are
presently being carried out with sensitive mutants to establish definitively the 
relation between intracellular pool of glutathone and the resistance mechanism of
a yeast to patulin.

PMID: 23605725  [PubMed]


1620. Neuropharmacology. 1985 Mar;24(3):251-9.

Antistereotypic effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8), ceruletide and
related peptides on apomorphine-induced gnawing in sensitized mice.

Zetler G.

Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8), ceruletide (caerulein, CER) and 7 analogues 
of ceruletide, were studied for antagonism of stereotyped gnawing and cage
climbing, induced by apomorphine in mice that were sensitized by either
administration of scopolamine (1 mg/kg, s.c., 15 min before) or teflutixol (5
mg/kg, i.p., 4 days before). Three neuroleptics (haloperidol, trifluoperazine and
teflutixol) served as reference drugs. All peptides reduced or abolished the
fully developed gnawing activity and were (on a molar basis) often more potent
than the reference drugs. In contrast to the neuroleptics, the peptides did not
antagonize the climbing activity. In mice pretreated with scopolamine, the
peptides were more potent than in mice pretreated with teflutixol. With the
neuroleptics, the influence of the sensitizing pretreatments was converse, and
this applied also to the anticlimbing effect. The relationships between peptide
structure and antistereotypic effect were different from those found previously
in a study on the antagonism of gnawing induced by methylphenidate.CONCLUSIONS:
CCK-like peptides are able to antagonize stereotyped behaviour caused by direct
and indirect dopaminergic agonists; the mechanism of action of the peptides
differs from that of the reference neuroleptics.

PMID: 2859544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. No Shinkei Geka. 1985 Mar;13(3):283-90.

[Angiographic analysis of the middle cerebral artery in cerebral aneurysms--its
branching pattern and so-called vascular anomalies].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitami K, Kamiyama H, Yasui N.

Branching patterns of middle cerebral artery (MCA) were angiographically analyzed
in 704 cases with cerebral aneurysms. The mean age was 53 years old and the
men-to-women ratio was 1.1. In addition, 13 vascular anomalies of MCA were
reported and their correlation with the occurrence of cerebral aneurysm was
studied.RESULTS: MCA branching patterns were classified in 6 types. Each type was
further studied by dividing into 2 subgroups, namely one with MCA aneurysms at
their side and the other without MCA aneurysms. There were no differences
statistically between each two groups. Vascular anomalies were consisted of 5
duplications of MCA, 4 fenestrations, 3 accessories and one case of combination
of duplication and accessory in the same side. Duplications and accessories did
not have any evidence of developing aneurysm more frequently at their bifurcation
than any one of normal MCA branching patterns. So we concluded that duplications 
and accessories should be thought to have similar meanings with the ordinary
branching patterns of MCA in the occurrence of aneurysms. A postmortem case of
accessory MCA without aneurysm revealed that the origin of the anomaly was
pathologically normal. We suggested that the origin of accessory MCA could both
be an enlarged Heubner artery and a rare branching pattern of MCA. The
fenestration should be a true anomaly but at this point we do not have any
suggestive clue for that. Finally, we thought that the combination of duplication
and accessory in a single MCA was very rare morphologically, and worthwhile to
report.

PMID: 4010878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1985 Feb 2;115(5):153-9.

[Therapy of differentiated thyroid carcinomas. Prospective study].

[Article in German]

Gemsenjäger E, Staub JJ, Heitz PU.

During an 11-year period (1973-1984) a consecutive series of papillary (n = 30)
and follicular (n = 38) thyroid carcinomas was prospectively selected, on the
basis of a clinico-pathologic and prognostic classification, for 1) non-total
thyroidectomy (n = 20), 2) total thyroidectomy (n = 13), or 3) total
thyroidectomy and radioiodine (n = 35), together with exogenous suppressive
thyroxine therapy in most patients. Patients with an occult papillary carcinoma
and patients under 40-50 years of age with an intrathyroidal, single papillary
carcinoma without nodes, and microangioinvasive follicular carcinoma were often
treated by non-total thyroidectomy or without radioiodine. Some patients refused 
adequately radical therapy (completion of thyroidectomy or radioiodine).RESULTS: 
a half-year to 11 (5 +/- 3) years following treatment no recurrences or deaths
occurred in occult papillary and in microangioinvasive follicular tumors (treated
by total thyroidectomy and radioiodine in 1 of 9 and in 2 of 9 patients
respectively); 1 death and 1 curable recurrence occurred in the intrathyroidal
papillary carcinoma group (treated by total thyroidectomy and radioiodine in 7 of
the 15 patients); 3 patients died and there were 4 recurrences (3 locoregional, 1
systemic) in the patients suffering from extrathyroidal papillary or
angioinvasive follicular carcinoma (treated by total thyroidectomy and
radioiodine in all of the 6 and in 19 of 29 patients respectively). Patients who 
died (all had pulmonary metastases at the time of diagnosis) and those with a
recurrence had total thyroidectomy with radioiodine as the primary treatment. In 
lethal papillary carcinomas, large follicular and solid areas, squamous cell
metaplasia or anaplastic transformation were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 3975583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1985 Feb;78(2):255-60.

[Aortocaval fistulas. Apropos of 5 cases].

[Article in French]

Christides C, Laskar M, Kim M, Dany F, Michel A, Moinet A.

5 cases of aorto-iliac aneurysms which fistulised into the inferior vena cava are
described. They illustrate the problems encountered in this condition.
-DIAGNOSIS: although a classical diagnosis, it is only recognised in 27 p. 100 of
cases because the clinical presentation can be very variable. A pulsating,
expansive, abdominal mass very suggestive of an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta
should alert to the possibility of a fistula within the inferior vena cava when
the patient has unexplained cardiac failure, shock, lower limb deep vein
thrombosis, urinary or psychological problems. In the absence of a continuous
abdominal murmur, the diagnosis may be confirmed by complementary investigations;
the investigations of choice are non-invasive. Abdominal ultrasonography showing 
an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta associated with dilatation of the inferior
vena cava is very suggestive of the diagnosis. - The only treatment is surgery.
The operative risk depends on the presence of absence of associated
retroperitoneal rupture of the aneurysm, the respective mortalities being 83 p.
100 and 15 p. 100. - The principal causes of death are pulmonary embolism and
renal failure which necessitate special prophylactic measures (surgical and
anaesthetic).

PMID: 3920996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1985 Feb;85(1):81-8.

Serum magnesium in insulin-dependent diabetics and healthy subjects in relation
to insulin secretion and glycemia during glucose-glucagon test.

Menzel R, Pusch H, Ratzmann GW, Besch W, Förster F, Albrecht G, Ruhnke R.

In order to investigate the influence of insulin secretion on serum magnesium
concentrations 33 insulin-dependent diabetics and 10 control subjects were
studied. The residual insulin secretion (RIS) was investigated by measurement of 
human C-peptide (HCP) before and after stimulation during on OGTT (1.75
mg/kg)-glucagon (i.v. 0.1 mg glucagon/kg)-test.RESULTS: Certain RIS existed in 11
insulin-dependent diabetics, 12 were without any RIS (uncertain RIS in 10
patients). Glucose tolerance and daily glycemia differed significantly among the 
two groups. However, all diabetics were far from euglycemia, (3.3-9.3 mmol/l):
Fasting plasma glucose 12.0 +/- 0.9 (certain RIS), 15.0 +/- 0.8 (no RIS), 13.9
+/- 1.8 (uncertain RIS). Serum magnesium was significantly lower in all
diabetics, both before and during the test. There was no change during the
OGTT-glucagon-test and no difference among the three groups of insulin-dependent 
diabetics. So, we conclude that a small RIS in our longterm insulin-dependent
diabetics has no influence on the behaviour of serum magnesium. But, magnesium
depletion can influence coronary blood flow, blood clotting, and atherogenesis.
Therefore, it should be necessary to pay more attention to the hypomagnesemia in 
insulin-dependent diabetics.

PMID: 3886415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. G Ital Cardiol. 1985 Feb;15(2):177-83.

[Sustained ventricular tachycardia in postinfarct ischemic heart disease:
spontaneous polymorphism. Clinical, therapeutic and prognostic aspects].

[Article in Italian]

Vergara G, Disertori M, Inama G, Guarnerio M, Bettini R, Stirpe E, Furlanello F.

Spontaneous Polymorphism (SP) is present when at least two episodes of Sustained 
Ventricular Tachycardia (SVT) occur spontaneously in the same patient (pt) with
different bundle branch block pattern or with shifting of QRS axis by greater
than or equal to 90 in the various episodes. We undertook this study in order to 
investigate the clinical significance of SP in SVT as well as therapeutic and
prognostic implications. MATERIAL AND METHODS. From our global pts populations we
chose those with SVT in chronic ischemic heart disease (CIHD) with previous
myocardial infarction (PMI), they had to be already studied by electrophysiologic
technique (EES). The pts were divided into two groups (Gr.): Gr. I: 13 SP pts (12
M, 1 F, mean age 57.5 +/- 13; mean follow-up 19.2 +/- 11 months); Gr. II: 15 no
SP pts (14 M, 1 F, mean age 60 +/- 10; mean follow-up 9.9 +/- 13 months).RESULTS:
The two Gr. are comparable in terms of symptoms, exercise tolerance, infarct
site, intraventricular conduction disturbances (61.5% and 66.6% respectively),
ventricular wells kinetics (38.4% and 26.6% respectively) and time interval
between acute myocardial infarction the first episode of SVT (7.58 +/- 6.02 and
8.27 +/- 6.57 years respectively). 8 of the 10 alive Gr. I pts have been treated 
with Amiodarone (A) (2800-4200 mg/wk). All 9 alive Gr. II pts are on A (1400-4200
mg/wk). A serum level in 7 Gr. I pts was 1.7 +/- 0.65 mcg/ml and 1.61 +/- 0.67 in
5 Gr. II pts. 3/13 Gr. I pts died: 2 for sudden death (15.3%), 6/15 Gr. II pts
died: 4 suffered sudden death (26.6%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4007367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1626. G Ital Cardiol. 1985 Feb;15(2):142-8.

[Evaluation of the ejection fraction using 2 simplified echocardiographic methods
in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular asynergy].

[Article in Italian]

Iliceto S, Ricci A, Sorino M, Gaglione A, Chiddo A, Biasco G, Rizzon P.

This study was undertaken to assess the reliability of two simplified
echocardiographic methods (Method A and B) in evaluating ejection fraction (E.F.)
in patients with left ventricular wall motion abnormalities (WMA). Method A was
obtained with a microprocessor that allows the superimposition of a calibrated
ellipse to left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic silhouettes; the shape
of the ellipse was modified to obtain the best superimposition of the ellipse
outline to the endocardium. E.F. was then obtained with the formula: VD-VS/VD
where VD and VS were the ellipse volumes at end-diastole and end-systole. In
method B E.F. was obtained averaging 3 regional E.F. obtained with a longitudinal
axis and 3 different transverse diameters. In a group of 40 patients with WMA and
excellent 2D echo images the correlation between echocardiographic and
angiographic values was r = 0.76 for method A and r = 0.92 for method B. Method B
was also tested in a group of 25 consecutive unselected patients with left
ventricular WMA; in this group the correlation with angiographic values of E.F.
was r = 0.84.IN CONCLUSION: in patients with WMA method B must be preferred
because it is easier to perform and presents a better correlation with
angiographic data than method A.

PMID: 4007362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Radiologe. 1985 Feb;25(2):78-82.

[Double nuclide myocardial scintigraphy with thallium 201 and iodine
123-heptadecanoic acid--the possibilities in cardiological diagnosis].

[Article in German]

Müller KD, Kindler M, Gottwik MG, Grebe SF, Schlepper M.

We studied in 11 patients the individual variable pattern of coronary blood
supply after the end of diagnostic coronary catheterisation by intracoronary
injection of T1201 into the left and J 123-heptadeconic acid into the right
coronary artery. In 4 static views computer aided quantitative analysis of
circumferential profiles was performed. Based on Schlesinger's criteria three
types of coronary arterial patterns were defined (right, left preponderant,
balanced) after the presentation in the angiographic projections.CONCLUSIONS:
Sharp boders between different perfusion areas could be detected by the gamma
camera. If patients with right preponderant circulation are compared with
balanced circulation, the perfusion areas of the left coronary artery are greater
in all cases with balanced circulation than expected. More important for the
indication of coronary artery surgery is that a considerable area of the left
ventricular myocardium is perfused by the right coronary artery independent of
the anatomical perfusion pattern with the exception of the left preponderant
type.

PMID: 3873087  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. Acta Ophthalmol Suppl. 1985;173:32-4.

Tear pH after instillation of buffer in vivo.

Norn M.

The pH of the conjunctival fluid was measured with a micro-electrode at the
middle of the inferior conjunctival fornix of 160 eyes (86 subjects). After
instillation of buffer of pH 5 (in 22 eyes pH 9) the linear course of pH changes 
was followed until the starting value had been regained. The coefficient of
regression K was computed (pH-units/min.). In normal eyes the K-value declines
with increasing age from 1.0 to 0.5, corresponding to a return to the starting
value after 2 to 5 minutes. The K-value is reduced significantly in
keratoconjunctivitis sicca (K = 0.21, pemphigoid (0.36), during local anaesthesia
(0.38 +/- 0.03 against 1.04 +/- 0.10 prior to 0.4% oxibuprocain), in the presence
of a cotton plug in the inferior fornix, and in wearers of soft contact lenses.
The K-value is normal in cases of lacrimal occlusion (owing to overflow), in
exophthalmos and endothelial dystrophy, following corneal grafting, in
conjunctivitis and keratitis, and in wearers of hard contact lenses. In cadaveric
eyes we find incomplete, irregular neutralization.CONCLUSION: Tear dilution is
the most important factor in the elimination of buffered eye drops in vivo,
compared with the proper buffering capacities of the tears and the tissue.

PMID: 3002097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1629. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 1985;43(2):167-72.

[The laboratory of tomorrow. Particular reference to hematology].

[Article in French]

Cazal P.

A serious prediction can only be an extrapolation of recent developments. To be
exact, the development has to continue in the same direction, which is only a
probability. Probable development of hematological technology: Progress in
methods. Development of new labelling methods: radio-elements, antibodies.
Monoclonal antibodies. Progress in equipment: Cell counters and their adaptation 
to routine hemograms is a certainty. From analyzers: a promise that will perhaps 
become reality. Coagulometers: progress still to be made. Hemagglutination
detectors and their application to grouping: good achievements, but the market is
too limited. Computerization and automation: What form will the computerizing
take? What will the computer do? Who will the computer control? What should the
automatic analyzers be? Two current levels. Relationships between the automatic
analysers and the computer.ADVANTAGES: rapidity, fidelity and above all,
reliability. Memory: large capacity and easy access. Disadvantages: conservatism 
and technical dependency. How can they be avoided? Development of the
environment: Laboratory input: outside supplies, electricity, reagents,
consumables. Samples and their identification. Output: distribution of results
and communication problems. Centralization or decentralization?
CONCLUSIONS: What will tomorrow's laboratory be? 3 hypotheses: optimistic,
pessimistic, and balanced.

PMID: 4073609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1630. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1985 Jan-Feb;55(1):69-74.

[The heart and ankylosing spondylitis].

[Article in Spanish]

Badui E, Jiménez J, Robles E, García Rubí DE, Mintz G.

We studied 40 consecutive patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis from the
cardiological point of view through non-invasive methods. Fourteen (35%) patients
had some kind of cardiovascular complication as shown by any of the used methods.
a)SYMPTOMS: fifteen (37.5%) refered nonspecific chest pain, five (12.5%) dyspnea 
on exertion and four (10%) frecuent palpitations. b)
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: two patients (5%) had aortic regurgitation and two (5%)
mitral valve disease. c) Electrocardiogram: in seven (17.5%), left ventricular
hypertrophy was detected, in two (5%) left atrial hypertrophy and in seven
(17.5%) some type of conduction disturbance. d) Chest X Ray: six (15%) had left
ventricular hypertrophy, one (2.5%) left atrial hypertrophy and two (5%) dilated 
ascending aorta. e) Echocardiogram: two cases (5%) had aortic dilatation and
other two (5%), mitral valve disease. In three patients (7.5%) pericardial
effusion was found, which in our series, it is more frecuent than has been
reported up until now in the literature.

PMID: 3159362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. Circ Shock. 1985;15(2):111-21.

Morphological differences in cutaneous and skeletal muscle vasculature during
compensatory and decompensatory hemorrhagic hypotension.

Johnson G 3rd, Henderson D, Bond RF.

PURPOSE: to determine if morphological differences exist between vasculature
shown to decompensate, ie, skeletal muscle (SM) and vasculature that maintains
the compensatory effort, ie, cutaneous (C).
METHODS: dogs were anesthetized and subjected to a Wiggers hemorrhagic shock
protocol. SM and C flows were monitored using electromagnetic flowmeters.
Gracilis (SM) and saphenous (C) arterial segments were removed during:
prehemorrhage control, compensation, and decompensation. Segments were fixed at
in vivo intraluminal pressures. Both light and EM sections were made from each
sample.
RESULTS: During the compensatory phase, both SM and C showed signs of strong
vasoconstriction. Even though the amount of endothelial folding was comparable,
the C did and the SM did not sustain the vasoconstriction. Vascular diameters of 
the SM but not C increased during decompensation. Ultrastructural changes
consisted of extreme folding of the internal elastic lamina (IEL) during
compensation and subsequent flattening out of the IEL during decompensation in
the SM but not the C tissues. Cell deformation, damage, and exfoliation were seen
in both SM and C tissues.
CONCLUSION: The data are consistent with the theory that SM vasculature,
specifically endothelium, synthesizes an inhibitor of NE release, probably
prostaglandins.

PMID: 3978764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1632. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1985;7(9):1259-68.

The brain renin-angiotensin system and the development of DOC-salt hypertension.

Basso N, Ruiz P, Kurnjek ML, Cannata MA, Taquini AC.

The effect of captopril, given in the drinking fluid, on the development of
DOC-salt hypertension was analyzed. Although captopril did not prevent an
increase in blood pressure (BP) elicited by DOC-salt, captopril did diminish BP
in both DOC-salt and control animals. From the first week of treatment DOC-salt
rats increased their fluid intake (FI). At the end of the experiment, captopril
reduced this increment (655% to 357%). At the same time plasma angiotensinogen
was diminished (-35%; p less than 0.001) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) substrate 
concentration increased (+33%; p less than 0.02) in DOC-salt rats, captopril did 
not modify these changes. In control rats captopril did not alter FI, depleted
plasma angiotensinogen, (-73%; p less than 0.001), did not change the central
prohormone and increased plasma renin activity (PRA) (+260%; p less than
0.001).IN CONCLUSION: CSF angiotensinogen concentration changes as previously
found in CNS while a clear dissociation between plasma and CSF angiotensinogen
was found in DOC-salt rats. In these animals the hypertension was not clearly
affected by captopril treatment. However the effect of the converting enzyme
inhibitor suggests that the central renin-angiotensin system could participate in
the increase in FI.

PMID: 3907896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Drugs Exp Clin Res. 1985;11(9):595-600.

Lipid microspheres as novel drug carriers.

Mizushima Y.

Author information: 
Department of Internal Medicine, St. Marianna University, Kawasaki, Japan.

SUMMARY: Lipid microsphere preparations of corticosteroid, non-steroid
anti-inflammatory drugs and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) all showed more potent
activity than the free drugs. Lipo-PGE1 in particular was significantly more
active than free PGE1 at about one-tenth the dose of free PGE1. A large mass of
data obtained in studies of liposomes suggest many applications for the lipid
microsphere, which is considered to be a very promising carrier in drug delivery 
systems.

PMID: 3880046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Eur J Nucl Med. 1985;10(5-6):252-4.

Serum thyroglobulin levels in patients with well-differentiated thyroid cancer
during suppression therapy: study on 429 patients.

Girelli ME, Busnardo B, Amerio R, Scotton G, Casara D, Betterle C, Piccolo M,
Pelizzo MR.

Serum thyroglobulin (Tg) was measured in 429 patients with well-differentiated
thyroid carcinoma, during thyroid hormone suppression therapy. 324 patients out
of 429 were considered free of disease; 44 had only remnants in the thyroid bed; 
61 had metastases, of them 40 were detected by TBS and 21 were nonfunctioning and
were detected by other diagnostic procedures. Tg was measured by a RIA method in 
257 patients and by an IRMA method in 277 patients. The correlation between the
two methods was very good (r = 0.914) for values higher than 25 ng/ml with the
RIA method. The cut-off limit to distinguish pathological from nonpathological
values was considered the mean value found in the patients free of disease plus
2SD. The cut-off limit for the RIA method was 24.2 ng/ml and 3.0 ng/ml for the
IRMA method. Of patients with high Tg levels 92% had metastases, either nodal or 
distant; only 8% had remnants in the thyroid bed. Tg levels were high in 80% of
the patients with metastases, all but two of the patients with metastases and low
Tg levels had nodal metastases. Moreover, Tg levels were high in 76% of the
patients with metastases unable to take up radioiodine.IN CONCLUSION: patients
with low levels of serum Tg during suppression therapy have a high probability of
being free of disease, even though the presence of tumors cannot be excluded. On 
the other hand a value greater than the cut-off limit suggests the presence of
metastases despite a negative scan.

PMID: 3987701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Exp Pathol. 1985;27(1):41-8.

Redox status of cultured fibroblasts. Possible relations with specific catabolic 
rates of proteoglycans.

Kittlick PD, Babin W.

In cultured embyonic rat fibroblast the cytoplasmic NAD/NADH ratio was determined
from the lactate/pyruvate ratio under acidic, hypoxic and lactic acid-rich
conditions.RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The NAD/NADH ratio is reduced when the
lactate concentration increases at pH 7.4 with and without hypoxia. At pH 6.6
this ratio is not reduced by lactate in normoxia: Conditions of aerobic
glycolysis did not increase NADH. The NAD/NADH ratio was strongly lowered at pH
6.6 by lactate plus hypoxia. At low cell density this condition of hypoxic
glycolysis is correlated with the increase of the specific activities of CS- and 
DS-proteoglycans (DS much greater than CS). But only the CS concentration was
increased. Conditions of aerobic glycolysis at low cell density caused a moderate
increase of both the specific activity and concentration of DS. The different
regulation of the turnover of CS- and DS-proteoglycans is suggested to be based
on their different synthetic capacities (CS greater than DS) on the one side and 
on the effect of specifically acting proteoglycanases on the other side. Maximal 
degradation of proteoglycans seems to be stimulated by NADH-activated proteases, 
supposedly thiol proteases. Lower degradation seems to be effectuated under
non-reductive acidic conditions. Both these types of degradation seem stronger to
affect DS-proteoglycan. Some neutral proteases seem stronger to affect
CS-proteoglycan. Improved oxygen supply might reduce the CS concentration in
proliferating tissue, such as in chronic inflammation, and thus reduce this
process.

PMID: 4040030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1985 Jan;45(1):11-6.

[Grading of epithelial ovarian cancers].

[Article in German]

Schulz BO, Baker E, Strolz C, Sellin D, Stegner HL, Krebs D.

Tissue slides of 230 epithelial ovarian cancers were examined by two different
pathologic teams to determine the following details: histological pattern, grade 
of polymorphy, mitotic index, density of chromatin, presence of nuclei and
macronuclei, lymphocytic infiltration, psammoma bodies, and necrosis. For
statistical evaluations the data were presented together with stage, age and
survival times in form of an information vector for each of the 230 patients and 
analysed using hazard-models (Cox 1972, Carter 1983) and contingency
tables.RESULTS: The agreement between the 2 pathologic teams was good. There were
many interrelated histological concomitants, such as polymorphy and chromatin
density, and as nuclei and macronuclei. Necrosis was relatively independent.
Significant effects on prognosis could be demonstrated for polymorphy, chromatin 
density, mitotic index, histologic pattern, (macro)nuclei. Polymorphy was the
best histological prognostic indicator and, together with necrosis, produced the 
best prognostic grading system.

PMID: 2984082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Hum Neurobiol. 1985;4(1):41-52.

On the perception of time during prolonged temporal isolation.

Aschoff J.

In an underground isolation unit, 42 subjects were living singly for time spans
of at least 7 days up to more than a month. Except three who were entrained to 24
h by an externally controlled light-dark cycle (LD), subjects had no time cues
and developed free-running circadian rhythms either in self-selected LD-cycles or
in constant illumination. Each subject had to give a signal whenever he thought
that 1 h had passed. In addition, 30 subjects produced short-time intervals
within the range from 10 to 120 s.RESULTS: The 1-h estimates were longer than 1
h, and had a strong positive correlation with the duration of wakefulness alpha
as well as with the length of the circadian cycle. The short time estimates were 
equally distributed between under- and over-estimation of the required interval, 
and they were neither correlated with the 1-h estimates nor with alpha. It is
concluded that long and short time estimates are based on different mechanisms.

PMID: 3997587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Int J Clin Pharmacol Res. 1985;5(5):357-62.

Combined chemotherapy, cryosurgery, and radiotherapy/surgery for oral cancer.

Airoldi M, Fazio M, Gandolfo S, Ozzello F, Pedani F, Brando V, Vercellino V.

One hundred and twelve patients (95 males, 17 females) with untreated
squamous-cell carcinoma of the oral cavity underwent a multidisciplinary
treatment.FOLLOW-UP: 6-72 months (median 51 months). T1-4N0M0 lesions (tongue, 31
patients; floor, 31 patients; cheek, 17 patients; retromolar, 9 patients) were
treated with cryosurgery (T1-2: 1-2 sessions, T3-4: 2-4 sessions) and
contemporaneously with (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil)(CMF)
(T1-2:2 courses; T3-4: 3 courses). The patients, 15-20 days after the end of
cryo-chemotherapy, underwent TCT (T1: 50 Gy on tumour and lymph nodes; T2-3-4:
same with an extra dose of 10-15 Gy on the primary lesion). T1-4N1-3M0 patients
(tongue: 8, floor: 13, cheek: 2, retromolar: 1) received the same cryotherapy and
chemotherapy, followed by surgery (16 widened suprahyoid dissections, 8
conservative laterocervical dissections, 1 radical neck dissection). Overall
actuarial survival at six years was 61.9%: T1-4N0M0 (88 patients) 66.6% (T1-2
76.0%; T3-4 56.9%); T1-4N1-3M0 (24 patients) 44.4% (T1-2 66.6%; T3-4 33.3%).
Six-year actuarial survival by site was: tongue (39 patients) 79.2% (N0 85.9%);
floor (44 patients) 55.2% (N0 57.1%); cheek (19 patients) 74.2% (N0 68.9%);
retromolar (10 patients) 0% (N0 0%). Complete remission was reached four months
after treatment by 97 patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4066086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. J Emerg Med. 1985;3(1):37-9.

Left ventricular enlargement.

Gruber JE.

Electrophysiology/Characteristics/Morphology: Increased duration of QRS interval,
delay of intrinsicoid deflection, and increased QRS voltage tend to occur.
"Strain" refers to T-wave inversion with depressed upwardly convex ST segments in
the setting of LVE. Leftward axis is common, but not always found with LVE. EKG
diagnosis: See Romhilt-Estes Scoring System outlined in Table 1. Conditions
impairing diagnosis: asymmetrical septal hypertrophy, prior MI, CHF, pericardial 
or pleural effusions, anasarca, pulmonary emphysema, RBBB, LBBB, obesity,
concomitant right ventricular enlargement. False positive diagnosis can occur in 
children and young adults, or in patients who are emaciated or have a slender
body build.SIGNIFICANCE: Hypertension is the most common cause. New onset or
increasing strain pattern may signify LV dilatation and failure, or myocardial
ischemia, and warrants careful evaluation.
TREATMENT: As per underlying cause.

PMID: 2936795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1985;366:435-8.

[Self-healing cecal fistulas for securing anastomoses of the colon and rectum--is
this still indicated?].

[Article in German]

Ultsch B, Opitz G, Schmutzler M.

During a period of 2.5 years self-healing coecostomies according to Stelzner
(1970) were applied in 48 elective procedures to the left colon. The following
operations were done by 16 different surgeons: left side hemicolectomy 5, sigma
resection 24, anterior resection of the rectum 19, 13 of which had anastomoses
less than 8 cm.RESULTS: Mean postoperative hospital care 25.3 days, no clinical
manifestation of anastomotic leaks, first passing of stool after a mean of 8.5
days. Lethality of 4.2% independent of anastomoses, spontaneous occlusion of
fistulae after 42 +/- 26 days. 21% local not life-endangering complications
occurred.

PMID: 4058185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1985;366:467-75.

[Errors and dangers in intestinal sutures and anastomoses using stapler suture
instruments (EEA, TA55, TA90, GIA)].

[Article in German]

Gögler E.

In different tables the most important faults with enteral sutures and
anastomoses in general and at special operations are demonstrated: end-to-end
anastomoses with congruent diameter, anastomoses with different diameters, B I, B
II, low anterior resection, esophago-jejunostomy.CONCLUSION: Only if the surgeon 
has experience in standard technique, faults and risks with mechanical staplers
and manual sutures, the advantage-progress of staplers will be effective avoiding
special risks. Surgeons without experience may produce real catastrophes which
may turn out hopeless without training in manual suture technique.

PMID: 3903401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1642. Lasers Surg Med. 1985;5(3):327-35.

"Hot tip": another method of laser vascular recanalization.

Abela GS, Fenech A, Crea F, Conti CR.

This study is a preliminary report evaluating the use of laser radiation to heat 
a metal-capped fiber for arterial recanalization. The method was compared to the 
currently used bare-ended fiber for recanalization of occluded vessels. The model
used was a human coronary artery xenograft transplanted in the femoral artery of 
the dog. At 4 weeks following the transplantation, laser recanalization was
attempted using the heated metal probe ("hot tip") in five arteries and the bare 
fiber in another five arteries.RESULTS: 1) Angiography demonstrated
recanalization in all five arteries treated with the "hot tip" and three of the
five arteries treated with the bare fiber. 2) Only one perforation occurred with 
the "hot tip," whereas three perforations occurred with the bare fiber. 3) The
larger metal cap was capable of creating a wider channel in the occluded arterial
segment. Although the trend favored the heated metal cap in terms of
recanalization and less perforation than the bare fiber, the total number of
experiments were not adequate to demonstrate statistical significance.
Microscopic examination of the vessels recanalized by either technique was
similar. Characteristic charring at the recanalization site was seen regardless
of the technique used. These observations suggest that the effect of direct laser
radiation on plaques is predominantly a thermal effect. Although these results
would suggest utilization of a metal-capped fiber for vascular recanalization,
more studies need to be done to confirm these preliminary findings.

PMID: 4010444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1643. Nephron. 1985;40(4):429-32.

Plasma renin activity, blood uric acid and plasma volume in pregnancy-induced
hypertension.

Fievet P, Pleskov L, Desailly I, Carayon A, de Fremont JF, Coevoet B, Comoy E,
Demory JE, Verhoest P, Boulanger JC.

Plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma aldosterone (PA), blood uric acid (BUA),
plasma concentrations of catecholamines (Pcat) and plasma volume (PV) were
measured simultaneously in 24 patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension. This 
hypertensive group was divided into labile (LH) and permanent hypertension (PH)
groups according to the response of their blood pressure to home bed rest. As
compared to normal theoretical values, PV was decreased in both hypertensive
groups (LH = -70%; PH = -14%). As compared to a control group of 16 normotensive 
pregnant women, PRA was higher in LH and lower in PH whereas PA was lower in both
hypertensive groups. In both hypertensive groups, BUA was higher than in the
control group. No difference in Pcat was found between the three groups. In the
PH group negative correlations were found between BUA and PRA, as well as between
BUA and PV, but no correlation between PRA and PV nor between Pcat and BUA were
found.CONCLUSIONS: LH and PH are two pathophysiologically different entities in
pregnancy-induced hypertension. In PH, renin secretion is not appropriate to
hypovolemia and therefore not primarily involved in the pathogenesis of
hypertension. The role of hypovolemia in the increase of BUA may be discussed.

PMID: 3895007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Neurochem Int. 1985;7(2):255-61.

Evidence that the neuroleptic fluphenazine replaces Ca(2+) and adjusts the
noradrenaline induced cyclic adenosine monophosphate synthesis in the rat retina.

Wassenaar JS(1), Korf J, Schrage C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology of the University of Groningen, Bloemsingel 10,
9712 KZ Groningen, The Netherlands.

Intact rat retinae were incubated in Krebs-Ringer media with noradrenaline (NA)
in the presence (0.75 mM) or absence of extracellular Ca(2+) and at relatively
high (10 mM) or low (1 mM) theophylline concentrations. Depending on the
incubation conditions we found that the neuroleptic fluphenazine (FLU) affected
cAMP-synthesis separately from cAMP-degradation of the NA-cAMP system in the
retina. The main results were: At a relatively high theophylline concentration of
10 mM, where cAMP synthesis alone is operative, and at 0.75 Ca(2+) we measured
with 50 ?M NA a NA-response of 110 pmol cAMP/mg prot. At a low theophylline
concentration of 1 mM and again at 0.75 mM Ca(2+) both cAMP-synthesis and
-breakdown are operative. In this condition we found the NA-response of 26 pmol
cAMP/mg prot. to be raised by 10 ?M FLU to 130 pmol cAMP/mg prot. This enhancing 
effect might be due to inhibition of degradation of NA-induced cAMP by FLU. In
the absence of extracellular calcium and again at 10 mM theophylline, 10 ?M FLU
raised the NA response nearly 4-fold from 42 pmol cAMP/mg prot. to 153 pmol
cAMP/mg prot. The lowest effective concentration for obtaining this enhancing
effect was 10 ?M FLU and the effect is characterized by an apparent K(m) of 0.5
?M. The use of 10 mM theophylline in this condition suggests that this FLU-Ca(2+)
effect is confined to the synthesis part of the NA-cAMP system. The effect points
to a replacement of an intramembraneous Ca(2+) function by FLU.IN CONCLUSION: our
results suggest that FLU inhibits degradation of NA-induced synthesis of cAMP and
that the neuroleptic renders the NA-response less dependent on extracellular
Ca(2+).

PMID: 20492922  [PubMed]


1645. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1985 Jan;86(1):98-110.

[Experimental and clinical studies on left ilio-femoral thrombosis, with
reference to the significance of impaired venous return].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto K.

One hundred and eleven patients with venous thrombosis were studied with pelvic
phlebography and 99mTc-MAA venous scintigram. Based upon the degree of iliac
venous compression, they were classified into 4 types: Normal type (I), slightly 
compressed type (II), moderately compressed type (III) and severely compressed
type (IV). Left ilio-femoral venous thrombosis frequently occurred in type III
and type IV, which suggests that left ilio-femoral venous thrombosis tends to
develop with the advance of impaired venous return. The amount of serotonin, one 
of the substances released from platelets, was measured after the ligation of
iliac veins in 31 mongrel dogs. Thrombus formation was observed 3 days after the 
ligation, while the decline of intra-platelet serotonin and the rise of
extra-platelet serotonin had already been seen 3 hours after the ligation. In all
the 18 patients who had laparotomy, intra-platelet serotonin levels declined
significantly 3 days after the operation, and left ilio-femoral venous thrombosis
with iliac venous compression was detected in three of them without any
symptoms.CONCLUSION: Iliac venous compression tends to produce left ilio-femoral 
venous thrombosis not only under impaired venous return but also from the
releasing reaction of platelets, suggesting a strong possibility that platelets
may play an important role in venous thrombogenesis.

PMID: 3974571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Padiatr Padol. 1985;20(4):393-6.

[The need for hepatitis B immunoprevention in families with vertical hepatitis B 
infected children].

[Article in German]

Sacher M, Unger FD, Thaler H, Eder G.

We investigated the scope of hepatitis B infection in 11 families (family
contacts: fathers, siblings) in which the mother transmitted (vertical) hepatitis
B infection to the child.RESULTS: The initial examination demonstrated an acute
hepatitis B infection in one of the 11 fathers and former hepatitis B infection
in 8 fathers. In 2 fathers no hepatitis B markers were found (susceptible for
hepatitis B). In 3 of the 10 siblings examined an acute hepatitis B infection was
demonstrated, one child showed signs of a former hepatitis B infection, and in 6 
no hepatitis B markers were demonstrable. Current checks made in 5 families over 
a period of about 6.2 years showed another hepatitis B infection in one father
and one child. These observations stress the importance of immunisation in such
families.

PMID: 2934680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1647. Peptides. 1985;6 Suppl 1:1-4.

Stimulated secretion of pro-opiomelanocortin-related peptides in hypothalamic
cells.

Kapcala LP, Griffin TA, Birk TM.

Although it has been suggested pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) related peptides in
brain may be neurotransmitters or neuromodulators, little is known about their
secretion from neurons because it is difficult to study neurosecretion with an in
vivo model. To demonstrate the possibility that POMC peptides may be
neuroregulators which can be secreted in response to specific stimuli, we studied
the secretion of immunoreactive (IR-) adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and
IR-beta-endorphin from dissociated hypothalamic cells during potassium-induced
depolarization. Significant increments (p less than 0.025) in secretion of
IR-ACTH (267%) and IR-beta-endorphin (88-172%) over basal secretion were
stimulated by 60 mM KCl in the presence of calcium.CONCLUSION: Stimulated
secretion of POMC peptides from hypothalamic cells by potassium and calcium
follows classical neurosecretory mechanisms and suggests these neuropeptides
could be neuroregulators in brain.

PMID: 2995937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. Rev Neurol (Paris). 1985;141(3):203-6.

[Familial paroxysmal ataxia sensitive to acetazolamide. 3 cases in a new European
family].

[Article in French]

Trillet M, Gouttard M, Schott B.

This family is the tenth reported world-wide and the second reported in Europe.
Two of 3 brothers, their mother and probably their maternal grandmother were
affected.CLINICAL FEATURES: paroxysmal bouts of ataxia and dysarthria, nystagmus 
of permanent gaze, the dominant autosomal transmission, the benign nature of the 
affection and the remarkable efficacy of acetazolamide were typical of familial
paroxysmal ataxia. Specific points emphasized are the presence of a mild
pyramidal syndrome as a permanent finding in 2 of these patients, and the
anomalies of visual (longer lag period) and somesthetic (slowed conduction rate
in the lemniscus medialis) evoked potentials probably the result of extension
into other pathways than the cerebellar system. The finding of some degree of
glucose intolerance, noted previously (Aimard, Vighetto et al., 1983) raises the 
question of the place of this disease in the group of paroxysmal ataxias due to
pyruvic metabolism disorders.

PMID: 4001708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. Strahlentherapie. 1985 Jan;161(1):5-12.

[Evaluation of remission of progressive tumors treated with a simultaneous
combination of radiation and platinum therapy].

[Article in German]

Gefeller D, Renner K, Slomska J.

Since January 1982, we have treated in a phase-II study 28 patients with a
low-dose cis-platinum therapy combined with radiotherapy. We wanted to study the 
effect of reduced doses of cis-diamino-dichloroplatinum (II) in three different
dose patterns: 1. "higher" dosage (150 mg/m2 within six weeks), single dose: 25
mg/m2 one time per treatment week), 2. "medium" dosage (80 mg/m2 within six
weeks), single dose: 20 mg/m2 two times weekly during the first, fourth, seventh,
and tenth treatment week, 3. "lower" dosage (75 mg/m2 within six weeks), single
dose: 12.5 mg/m2 three times weekly during the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth 
treatment week. In one patient group the simultaneous radiotherapy was performed 
with a tumoricide dose of 2 Gy single dose with 4 fractions per week in two
series (first series about 40 to 48 Gy tumor dose, pause of three to four weeks, 
second series about 16 Gy focal dose). The other group received palliative
radiation doses (10 to 35 Gy tumor dose in one series), and the total platinum
doses were lower corresponding to the shorter irradiation time. All patients were
in advanced or recurrent stages of the disease. They suffered from different
carcinomas and sarcomas with measurable parameters of response.RESULTS: 1.
Manifestations beyond the irradiation field showed no remission. Within the
irradiation field, all cases responded (CR/PR) for at least two months. 2. There 
was no reliable dependence from the platinum dose. A tendency in favor of higher 
single doses could be supposed. The response of even extreme palliative cases
with low radiation and platinum doses was surprising. Limitating toxicities were 
not observed.

PMID: 4038562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. Trans Am Soc Artif Intern Organs. 1985;31:28-32.

Predilution versus postdilution for continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration.

Kaplan AA.

When compared to the postdilution mode, the predilution mode has the following
advantages and disadvantages:ADVANTAGES: A significant increase in net urea
clearance when compared to the postdilution mode: This study, showing a net 18%
increase, confirms the conclusions of our preliminary studies 15, 16. It allows
for a more liberal use of suction-assist: The combination of predilution and
suction-assist can yield a 60% increase in net urea clearance without the
generation of prohibitively high hematocrits and protocrits. A potential increase
in effective filter life by dilution of prefilter hematocrit, clotting factors,
and platelet count. Disadvantages: Increased cost of replacement fluid: This is
usually modest, approximately a 10 to 30% increase in total volume needed. With a
total output of 20 L/day this would represent approximately 6 L. In the manner
prepared (Table 4, Ref 6) this represents approximately $10 a day and must be
contrasted with the potential for increased filter life, the replacement of which
represents the major cost of CAVH therapy. Furthermore, and perhaps more
important, is that this modest increase in replacement fluid costs yields a
substantial increase in urea clearance, especially when used with suction-assist,
thus eliminating the need for intermittent hemodialysis and the costs it incurs. 
The filtrate chemistries can no longer be used to monitor the patient's plasma
values: Although the potential savings in blood drawing is real, experience with 
the postdilution mode suggests that filtrate values are rarely considered
adequate by the attending medical staff.

PMID: 3837456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Urol Res. 1985;13(4):199-205.

Evaluation of the relative inhibitory potential of fractionated urinary
macromolecules.

Azoury R, Goldwasser B, Wax Y, Perlberg S, Garti N, Sarig S.

Ultrafiltration membranes of 10,000 d, 1,000 d and 500 d were used to remove
urinary macromolecules from the urine of normal subjects and from the urine of
stone forming patients. The filtrated urines were examined for their residual
inhibitory potential for calcium-oxalate precipitation, by the discrimination
method of Sarig et al. (D.I. test). The results of testing the filtrate were
complementary to the information gained by analyses of retentates obtained in
successive ultrafiltration. The method has an inherent advantage because the
manipulation of solids retained on membranes may inadvertantly modify their
inhibitory potential. At least two distinct groups of inhibitors were found in 20
normal urines. The first group has MW above 10,000 d while the second group of
inhibitors has MW in the range of 500-1,000 d. The mean of the D.I. values
increased dramatically from the normal range (less than 0.6) to the stone former 
range (greater than 1.1) (p less than 0.001) after the 500 d filtration. Some of 
the normal urines, even after the 500 d filtration, still had a degree of
inhibitory potential. This inhibitory potential may be related to the inorganic
compounds which were found in the urines. The inhibitory activity of
macromolecules with MW above 10,000 d and below 500 delta was negligible in 7
stone formers (SF) urines. The relative contribution of 500-1,000 d
macromolecules is the highest both in SF and normal urines.CONCLUSIONS: 1)
inhibitors in human urine are of wide range in MW; 2) stone formers and normals
differ in the level of inhibitor activity at all MW ranges; especially in above
10,000 d and below inhibitors.

PMID: 4049608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Z Exp Chir Transplant Kunstliche Organe. 1985;18(4):230-44.

[Immunologic reactivity in the rabbit after the application of Xenoderm].

[Article in German]

Keller FT, Falk U, Löbel D.

The immunological compatibility of the pig skin preparation, Xenoderm was tested 
in an animal model. Firstly an experimental conception was selected which seized 
the immune degree of Xenoderm on the humoral and cellular level in animal test.
Specific immune reactions should be provoked in rabbit after a repeated
artificial immunisation by soluble protein extracts respectively by means of
recured implantation of Xenoderm tissue pieces and native pig skin. Test period
3-6 months.RESULTS: Native pig skin of the offered configuration induced an
intensive humoral and cellular immune reaction in experimental animal. Xenoderm
was immunologically inert after application as a soluble protein extract in
different concentrations and also as an implant. Xenoderm (desantigenic splitted 
pig skin preserve) is suitable as a temporary skin replacement for the therapy of
skin defects.

PMID: 3901557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Z Kardiol. 1985;74 Suppl 2:96-9.

Clinical study of muzolimine in acute renal failure, pharmacodynamics and
pharmacokinetics.

Bouletreau P, Meunier J, Kérihuel JC, Ritter W.

The aim of this study was to test the efficiency of muzolimine in patients with
acute renal failure (ARF).METHODS: 6 patients, all males, 46 to 78 years old
(mean 67.3 +/- 12.5) suffering from acute renal failure as a complication of a
surgical procedure (4 cases) or a medical disease (2 cases) were selected.
Creatinine clearance rates were below 20 ml/min for all subjects except one
(mean: 14.4 ml/min range 4-34), blood urea levels from 21 to 65 mmol/l (mean =
36.4); mean urinary output, during the 24 hours preceding the study (D-1) was
100.4 +/- 57 ml/h (range 36-208) without any diuretic treatment. No patient was
on dialysis. On the treatment day a single oral dose of muzolimine (240 mg) was
administered in the morning. During the treatment day (D0) and the post treatment
day (D + 1), pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics were evaluated. Mean urinary
output increased from 1.67 +/- 0.95 ml/min, at D-1 to 3.24 +/- 2 ml/min at D0
(NS), with great differences between patients. The main effect was noted between 
0 and 6 hours after the ingestion of muzolimine. The mean electrolyte output
increased from D0 to D1 for Na+ (0.1 mmol/min +/- 0.08----0.25 +/- 0.1-NS), K+
(0.05 mmol/min +/- 0.02----0.08 +/- 0.07-NS), Cl- (0.07 +/- 0.07 mmol/min----0.30
+/- 0.12 p less than 0.05) and Ca++ (1.89 +/- 1.89 meq/24 h----4.1 +/- 2 NS),
with large individual variations. Mean urea output increased slightly in only 3
patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 4002812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1654. Z Kardiol. 1985;74 Suppl 2:56-9.

Efficacy of two different doses of muzolimine in the treatment of mild
hypertension.

Cocchieri M, Chiuini E, Fortunati F, Fedeli L, Solinas P.

A report is given on the effects of oral therapy with muzolimine (M) in patients 
with mild hypertension.SUBJECTS AND METHOD: 21 untreated patients, aged 35 to 69 
(mean 53.1 yrs) with orthostatic diastolic BP between 100 and 115 mmHg were
randomly assigned to either group A (10 mg M/day) or group B (20 mg M/day) in a
single blind study for a period of two weeks. Clinostatic and orthostatic
systolic and diastolic BP and heart rate were recorded at weekly intervals. PRA, 
aldosteronemia, ECG and blood chemistry were analyzed at the beginning and at the
end of the study. Student's t-test was used for the statistical evaluation and p 
values below 0.05 were considered significant.
RESULTS: Both clinostatic and orthostatic diastolic BP were significantly reduced
in group A whereas only orthostatic diastolic BP was decreased in group B (Fig.
1). PRA and aldosteronemia values and blood chemistry showed no statistically
significant changes. No side effects were noted. We conclude that 10 mg/day of
muzolimine is more effective than 20 mg/day in reducing orthostatic diastolic BP 
(A vs. B p less than 0.02). Although these results are only preliminary data and 
further investigations are required, they suggest that muzolimine may be safely
used, in combination with other antihypertensive agents, particularly in cases of
renal failure.

PMID: 4002806  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Z Kardiol. 1985;74 Suppl 2:100-2.

Effects of haemodialysis on the pharmacokinetics of muzolimine.

Fiegel P, Röckel A, Hanisch M, Ritter W, Abdelhamid S, Walb D.

High ceiling diuretics allow a better control of fluid balance in dialysis
patients with a minimum urine flow of 500 ml/day. The pharmacokinetics of the
high ceiling, long acting diuretic muzolimine (M) was investigated in 6 patients 
on regular dialysis therapy.METHODS: Concentrations of unchanged M in plasma were
determined by high performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC) after a single
oral dose of 240 mg up to 26 h: A) during and after the performance of dialysis
lasting for 3 h, B) 20 h after finishing haemodialysis therapy (non-blind
randomized cross-over study).
RESULTS: The M plasma levels and the M half-lives did not differ between the two 
treatment groups (half-life A: 5.1 +/- 0.24 h; B: 4.8 +/- 0.51 h). The M peak
concentrations were between 2 and 5 micrograms/ml and were reached 2 h post
administration or even earlier. The mean M plasma levels 24 h after
administration were in the same range (A: 0.33 +/- 0.16 microgram/ml; B: 0.33 +/-
0.11 microgram/ml).

PMID: 4002781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. Z Kardiol. 1985;74 Suppl 2:157-60.

Interactions between muzolimine, PgE2 and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
system.

Calò L, Cantaro S, Piccoli A, Vianello A, Borsatti A, Bardini R, Antonello A.

The aim of our study was to determine the possible interrelation between
muzolimine and the renal PG and renin-angiotensin systems by direct assay of
these renal hormones. 4 groups of five rats were subdivided as follows: Group 1: 
controls; Group 2: rats treated with muzolimine (100 mg/kg); Group 3: rats
treated with indomethacin (4 mg/kg); Group 4: rats treated with both muzolimine
and indomethacin. After 3 days, the rats were transferred to metabolic cages,
urine and plasma samples were taken on the 4th day and the following parameters
assayed: Urine: creatinine, Na+, PGE2. Plasma: PRA and aldosterone.RESULTS AND
CONCLUSIONS: Muzolimine: 1) increase PRA (11.8 +/- 1.06 vs. 8.66 +/- 1.56 AI
ng/ml/h - p less than 0.01) and 2) increases PGE2 release (7.08 +/- 3.22 vs. 0.6 
+/- 0.19 micrograms/mg urine creatinine - p less than 0.005). PG
synthesis-inhibition (indomethacin) lowers (0.118 +/- 0.056 mmol Na+/mg urine
creatinine of group 2 vs 0.043 +/- 0.019 mmol Na+/mg urine creatinine of group 4 
- p less than 0.025) although not completely abolishes (0.043 +/- 0.019 nmol
Na+/mg urine creatinine of group 4 vs. 0.019 +/- 0.006 mmol Na+/mg of group 3 - p
less than 0.05) the natriuretic effect of muzolimine. This suggests that the
natriuretic activity of the drug, at least in part, depends on PGE2 production.

PMID: 3859104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. Z Klin Psychol Psychopathol Psychother. 1985;33(2):161-72.

[Effectiveness of acupuncture and attitude-relaxation training in the treatment
of primary sleep disorders].

[Article in German]

Becker-Carus C, Heyden T, Kelle A.

The present study focuses on the differential efficiency of specific
psychological and medical procedures for the treatment of chronic sleep disorders
(primary symptoms). 32 selected subjects with chronic sleep disorders were
assigned to one of the following groups according to their own choice: cognitive 
change and relaxation training (n = 12), needle acupuncture (n = 8), laser
acupuncture (n = 12), and a waiting control group (n = 12). Before, during, and
after the respective therapy each subject kept a record with 13 items about
his/her sleeping behaviour which had to be filled out every morning.RESULTS: All 
treatment groups showed an increase in the subjective recovery by sleep as well
as a decrease in the use of drugs. On a follow up after two weeks the cognitive
change/relaxation group showed a significant decrease in the time required to
fall asleep and in the frequency of waking up.

PMID: 3907175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1984 Dec 8;114(49):1854-7.

[Significance of age, sex, kidney function, atopy and number of prescriptions for
the occurrence of adverse drug reactions, studied by multivariate statistical
methods. Results from the Comprehensive Hospital Drug Monitoring Berne (CHDMB)].

[Article in German]

Hoigné R, Sollberger J, Zoppi M, Müller U, Hess T, Fritschy D, Stocker F, Maibach
R.

The influence of five factors (age, sex, renal function, atopy and number of
drugs) on the incidence of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) is analysed by
multivariate statistical methods (loglinear models for contingency tables). The
study is based on a total of 19,653 inpatients in the "Comprehensive Hospital
Drug Monitoring Berne (CHDMB)".RESULTS: 1. The risk of ADRs mainly increases with
the number of drugs. 2. Increasing age and female sex are also confirmed as risk 
factors by these statistical methods. Reduced renal function (increased serum
creatinine) is strongly correlated with advancing age. Renal function, however,
yields more pertinent information on ADR risk than does age. 3. In atopic and
non-atopic patients, the ADR risk is identical. In both groups of patients the
same number of drugs was given. If the pathogenetic mechanisms of the ADRs
(allergic or pharmacologic in the broad sense) are considered, it is found that
atopic patients show a ratio of about 2:1 pharmacologic to allergic reactions,
compared to about 3:1 in non-atopic subjects. A reduction in the incidence of
ADRs is best attained by even more restricted use of drugs and better and earlier
adaptation of drug dosage to diminished renal function.

PMID: 6515386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. Eur Heart J. 1984 Dec;5(12):1013-22.

Ischaemia related ventricular arrhythmias in patients with variant angina
pectoris.

Scrutinio D, De Toma L, Mangini SG, Lagioia R, Accettura D, Ricci A, Rizzon P.

Twenty-three patients with variant angina were studied by Holter monitoring both 
to assess the incidence of serious ventricular arrhythmias (a risk factor of
sudden death in variant angina), during ischaemic episodes and to examine the
time-relation of the arrhythmias to ST changes. Serious ventricular arrhythmias
were observed in 12/23 patients (52%). In the 23 patients, a total of 491
episodes of ST segment elevation were recorded during 954 h of Holter monitoring;
serious ventricular arrhythmias were found in only 46 ischaemic episodes (9.4%). 
Six out of 12 patients showed serious ventricular arrhythmias at the onset of
ischaemic episodes or during maximal ST elevation (phase 1), one patient during
return or immediately after return of ST to baseline (phase 2) and five patients 
during both phases. Thirty-three out of 46 ischaemic episodes (76%) showed
serious ventricular arrhythmias during phase 1, eight (17%) during phase 2, and
five (11%) during both phases. Serious ventricular arrhythmias were neither
related to previous myocardial infarction nor to the presence of serious
ventricular arrhythmias during inter-crisis periods, whereas a good relationship 
with severity of ischaemic episodes, as assessed by the magnitude and duration of
ST elevation, was found. A modest relationship with anterior ST elevation was
also found.IN CONCLUSION: (1) serious ventricular arrhythmias occur in a high
percentage of variant angina patients, but in only a small proportion of
ischaemic episodes; (2) serious ventricular arrhythmias are related to the
severity of ischaemia and occur predominantly at the onset of ischaemic episodes 
and/or during maximal ST elevation; in only a few cases do they occur during
resolution of ischaemic episodes.

PMID: 6534749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. G Ital Cardiol. 1984 Dec;14(12):1006-14.

[Left ventricular aneurysm in recent myocardial infarction. Echocardiographic
study].

[Article in Italian]

Pozzoli M, Tramarin R, Febo O, Assandri J, Larovere MT, Calsamiglia G, Cobelli F,
Specchia G.

Detection of post-infarction left ventricular aneurysm may have important
clinical and therapeutic consequences. Differences in selection and in diagnostic
criteria account for the wide range of incidence of left ventricular aneurysm in 
angiographic and autopsy series. To assess the incidence and related pathological
features of ventricular aneurysm, 410 consecutive patients were studied by
two-dimensional echocardiography 3 to 8 weeks after the onset of an acute
myocardial infarction. In 395 patients (96.3%) technically adequate echograms
were obtained: 42 patients (10.6%) had evidence of left ventricular aneurysm
defined as a well demarcated bulge in diastole and in systole with a thinned,
a-diskinetic walls. The incidence rate of left ventricular aneurysm was 17% in
188 anterior myocardial infarctions, 1.9% in 157 inferior ones, 25.9% in 27
anterior plus inferior infarctions; ventricular aneurysms were not found in any
of 15 lateral and 8 posterior myocardial infarctions. Aneurysms were apical or
apical-anterior in 25 patients (59.5%), apical-septal in 8 (19%),
apical-diaphragmatic in 3 (7.1%), apical-septal-diaphragmatic in 3 (7.1%) and
postero-basal in 3 (7.1%). Intraaneurysmal thrombi were detected in 24 patients
(57.1%). In 12 cases echograms showed pericardial effusion; this was more
frequent (28.6%) than in patients without an aneurysm (7.9%; p less than 0.001). 
Among patients with an aneurysm, heart failure was present in 19 (45.2%), mitral 
regurgitation in 3 (7.1%), of systemic emboly in 4 (9.5%), severe ventricular
arrhythmias in 4 (9.5%) and angina in 5 (11.9%).IN CONCLUSION: left ventricular
aneurysm is a frequent early complication of myocardial infarction.
Two-dimensional echocardiography provides non-invasive direct information on
localization, extent and related pathological features of ventricular aneurysm
and thus appears to be a useful screening technique.

PMID: 6532879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. J Trauma. 1984 Dec;24(12):1015-21.

Computed tomography in thoracoabdominal trauma.

Sherck JP, McCort JJ, Oakes DD.

This study evaluates our experience with CT scanning in thoracic and abdominal
trauma. It was designed to analyze the accuracy and usefulness of CT with regard 
to: a) type of trauma, b) location of injury, c) timing of scanning, d) timing of
operative intervention, e) confirmatory findings, and f) ultimate patient
outcome. Between 1978 and 1983, 2,069 CT scans were performed for trauma in our
institution, of which 122 were abdominal and ten thoracic, in 98 patients.
Thirty-one of these patients had operation or autopsy confirmation of the
findings; for 11 patients subsequent CT was available. Abdominal scanning was
positive in 48 patients. The organs most commonly injured were spleen (17
patients), pancreas (nine), kidney (11), and liver (eight). Two pancreatic scans 
were initially interpreted as negative, but in retrospect definite abnormalities 
were present.CONCLUSIONS: 1) Thoraco-abdominal CT scanning documents injury to
the liver, spleen, kidney, and retroperitoneum with a high degree of accuracy. 2)
CT is most useful in stable trauma patients without obvious indications for
laparotomy but with abnormal findings requiring explanation. 3) CT scanning is
useful in evaluating patients for delayed complications following trauma. 4)
Attention to details of technique and clinical correlation are essential to avoid
misinterpretation of thoracoabdominal CT scans, especially of the pancreas. 5)
Use of CT scans may assist in the safe, nonoperative management of selected
patients with injury limited to solid organs.

PMID: 6512895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1662. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Dec;58(13):1267-79.

[Experimental study on free muscle transplantation--histological changes and
functional recovery of transplanted muscles in relation to the duration of
ischemia and denervation].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasunaga H.

The purpose of this study was to clarify the influence of temporary ischemia and 
denervation on the characteristics of transplanted muscles.MATERIALS AND METHODS:
The rectus femoris brevis muscle of white rabbit was used. Under an operating
microscope, this muscle was mobilized preserving its feeding vessels, and the
innervating nerve was severed at 1 cm proximal to the entrance of the muscle. Six
groups were made as follows. Group D: The severed nerve was left as it was. Group
S: The nerve was sutured immediately after severance. No treatment was made on
the feeding vessels. Group SI: The artery and vein were clamped for 1, 2, 3 and 4
hours (group SI-1, 2, 3 and 4) after nerve repair. The proximal and distal tendon
were reattached to their original place in every group. Examination I:
Transplanted muscles were examined histologically and histochemically from 48
hours to 6 months. Motor end-plate was one of the targets of observation.
RESULTS: Main patho-histological changes observed on the muscle and motor
end-plates at one week were thought due to denervation, and the longer ischemic
time caused more severe change in the group SI-3 and 4. Phagocytosis, destruction
of muscle fibers and edema in the interstitial tissue were seen in these long
ischemic time groups. A few motor end-plates in the group SI-3 and many of them
in the group SI-4 were atrophic and their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity
was low. Reduced nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide-tetrazolium reductase
(NADH-TR) and phosphorylase activity were reduced in all groups at one week. At 3
weeks, muscle atrophy was pronounced and was found earlier in type II fibers than
in type I as a result of denervation. Pathological changes such as elongation,
atrophy or segmentation and low AChE activity were observed in the motor
end-plates of all groups at 3 and 6 weeks. These findings were more pronounced in
the group SI-3 and 4. In all groups at 6 weeks, phosphorylase activity was found 
to be generally low but NADH-TR reaction stained a few regenerated muscle fibers.
Although muscle atrophy was still observed at 9 weeks, recovery in size and shape
and histochemical reaction was seen in all groups at this stage. These findings
became more manifest at 15 weeks and almost normal appearance of muscle fibers
was observed at 6 months. Interstitial connective tissue, however, increased, and
necrotized muscle fibers were seen extensively in the group SI-3 and 4.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6534968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1663. Tex Heart Inst J. 1984 Dec;11(4):370-6.

Carnitine deficiency as the possible etiology of idiopathic mitral valve
prolapse: case study with speculative annotation.

Trivellato M(1), De Palo E, Gatti R, Parenti A, Piazza M.

Author information: 
(1)Servizio di Cardiologia, Ospedale Civile di Padova, Italy.

Idiopathic mitral valve prolapse (IMVP) is a very common cardiac abnormality that
may be linked to carnitine deficit (inadequate nutritional intake or absorption).
One patient with IMVP and related symptoms that were resistant to drug therapy
was fully studied. Free plasma carnitine and 24-hour free urine carnitine were
measured twice, 10 days apart, after an overnight fast.FINDINGS: Free plasma
carnitine 23 and 28 microM/L (our laboratory N=38+/-2 microM/L); free urine C 25 
and 44 microM/24 hr (N=255+/-66 microM/24 hr); FFA 0.88 mEq/L, Duncombe method
(N=0.09-0.60); LDL 42% (N = 44-65); cholesterol 161 mg/dl (N = 180-280);
triglycerides 84 mg/dl (N = 50-172); SGOT 79 MU/ml (N = up to 40); SGPT 147 MU/ml
(N = up to 40); OCT 11.2 MU/ml (N = up to 10.0); aldolase 11.5 MU/ml (N = up to
3.1, Bruns method). Deltoid biopsy: light microscopy showed the presence of
optically empty vacuoles; electron microscopy showed lipid droplets near the
subsarcolemma area and intermyofibrillar spaces. The mitochondria contained
electron dense granules. The electromyogram was also abnormal. In a random sample
of four patients with IMVP and related classic symptoms, we have found low levels
of plasma and/or urinary carnitine in each case. This study may be the first step
towards L-carnitine therapy for what has previously appeared to be idiopathic
cardiomyopathy.

PMCID: PMC351712
PMID: 15226877  [PubMed]


1664. Z Kardiol. 1984 Dec;73(12):772-85.

[Effects of the new cardiotonic agent TA-064: serial computer-assisted analyses
of pressure-volume relations and online myocardial 02 consumption].

[Article in German]

Thormann J, Kramer W, Kindler M, Neuss H, Bahawar H, Schlepper M.

According to investigations conducted in Japan, TA-064 is a new cardiotonic
agent, which is also effective orally. We analyzed computer-assisted alterations 
of pressure-volume relations serially and of MVO2 online (Bretschneider) during
TA-064 influence in 16 patients with congestive cardiomyopathy: LV-function of 7 
patients was only moderately decreased (group A) and in 9 patients massively
(group B).RESULTS: 1) TA-064, 8 micrograms/kg/min, i.v. had positive inotropic
effects in both groups and induced mean maximal delta% changes at about the 5th
minute of infusion as follows: LVSWI + 65% and 47%; DP/DTmax + 61% and 59%;
LV-efficiency + 62% and 53%; MVO2 + 31% and + 11% (p less than 0.05). 2) TA-064, 
20 mg p.o. induced serum levels (A: 23.8 +/- 12 and B: 26.4 +/- 20 ng/ml)
corresponding to the effects with the dosages 1-2 micrograms/kg/min, i.v. (p
greater than 0.05), thus implying that significant changes in LV-function require
higher p.o. dosages. 3) TA-064 i.v. on the 6th day of exposure to the medication 
produced less LV-function improvement than on day 1 (p greater than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In both groups A and B TA-064 improves LV-function primarily via
increased contractility, without toxic side effects. For a more complex
definition of the efficiency and mechanism of cardiotonic agents, the validity
and importance of using on-line MVO2 assessment and analysis of serial
pressure-volume relations is stressed.

PMID: 6523977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1984 Nov 30;134(22):487-93.

[Dehydration in the aged].

[Article in German]

Bonelli J, Jancuska M.

The present study seeks to examine the question of the etiology, the diagnostic
criteria and therapeutic consequences of exsiccosis in the elderly. The study
includes 14 patients (9 males, 5 females) with an average of 76,8 +/- 4,8 years
of age, all hospitalized because of dehydration. Following an exact diagnostic
procedure a controlled therapy including a discontinuation of treatment was
introduced in order to allow an evaluation of the development of
dehydration.RESULTS: 1. The diagnosis of senile exsiccosis requires a synthesis
of the patient's history, an exact physical examination and laboratory analysis. 
The central venous pressure (CVP) can be regarded as the most reliable parameter 
(it was lower than normal in 100% of the patients). There was a strikingly high
incidence of increased mean corpuscular volume (MCV)-more than 105 rm3 in 86% of 
the cases. 2. The mean liquid-deficit of elderly patients with exsiccosis was 4,8
+/- 2,81. 3. The reason for the frequent incidence of exsiccosis in advanced age 
is to be found in a relative adipsia (the average daily deficit of liquid-intake 
was 815 +/- 47 ml per patient). Combined with a diminished renal concentration
capacity (78,5% of the patients did not reach a specific weight of urine more
than 1020 after a concentration test). 4. As a preventive measure, patients with 
tendency for exsiccosis should receive instructions as to the necessity of daily 
liquid-intake following exact balancing; furthermore regular weight-controls
should be performed.

PMID: 6531933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Acta Paediatr Scand. 1984 Nov;73(6):717-21.

Regulation of renal water excretion in newborn full-term infants.

Aperia A, Herin P, Lundin S, Melin P, Zetterström R.

The renal response to low (45 ml/kg) and high (73 ml/kg) fluid intake was studied
during an 8-hour period in healthy 3-4-day-old full-term infants. 20 infants
received low fluid (LF) intake and 15 infants received high fluid (HF) intake. HF
significantly increased urine flow and significantly decreased urine osmolality
but did not influence glomerular filtration rate measured as the clearance of
creatinine. Serum arginine vasopressin (s-AVP) was not different in the LF and HF
groups and did not correlate to urine osmolality. Urinary sodium excretion was
significantly correlated to the diuresis.CONCLUSION: Following high fluid intake 
full-term infants are capable to adaptively excrete larger urine volumes and more
dilute urine by mechanisms independent of AVP. S-AVP appears to relate
differently to the state of hydration and to urine osmolality in infants than in 
adults.

PMID: 6524361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. Am J Physiol. 1984 Nov;247(5 Pt 2):F799-807.

Angiotensin II in adrenergic-induced alterations in glomerular hemodynamics.

Pelayo JC, Ziegler MG, Blantz RC.

Micropuncture analysis of glomerular ultrafiltration (SNGFR) was conducted in
Munich-Wistar rats to assess the functional responses to moderate-frequency
(3-Hz) renal nerve stimulation. Angiotensin II inhibition (ANG II-inhib) was
produced by the intravenous administration of [Sar1, Ala8] angiotensin II or MK
421 to investigate whether it modulates the effects of renal nerve stimulation.
Micropuncture measurements were obtained before and during renal nerve
stimulation. Renal nerve stimulation decreased SNGFR approximately 25% (from 49.9
+/- 2.3 to 38.0 +/- 1.4 nl X min-1 X g kidney wt-1), the result of decreased
glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure gradient and nephron plasma flow. These
decreases were due to increased afferent (approximately 43%) and efferent
(approximately 30%) arteriolar resistances, since the glomerular ultrafiltration 
coefficient remained unaffected. The effects of renal nerve stimulation during
ANG II-inhib were less in magnitude than in renal nerve stimulation alone: SNGFR 
decreased from 48.0 +/- 1.5 to 44.8 +/- 2.0 nl X min-1 X g kidney wt-1 after
renal nerve stimulation. The net renal production of norepinephrine was augmented
by renal nerve stimulation but it was not influenced by ANG II-inhib.IN
CONCLUSION: renal nerve stimulation can regulate glomerular ultrafiltration by
altering vascular resistances, and angiotensin II appears to be a critical factor
for the full functional expression of renal nerve stimulation at the glomerulus.

PMID: 6093592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1668. J Hosp Supply Process Distrib. 1984 Nov-Dec;2(6):16-7.

Continuing education.

[No authors listed]

PROBLEM: With increasing demands being placed on limited resources, hospitals are
drastically cutting back or eliminating entirely funds for employee continuing
education. Considering the advances in technology, the changing regulatory and
legislative climates, and the growing need for expertise in handling DRGs and
case mixes, more funds should be allocated for continuing education, not less.
Agree: 87%, Disagree: 9%, No opinion: 3%.

PMID: 10269450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. J Neurochem. 1984 Nov;43(5):1295-301.

Inactivation of neurotensin by rat brain synaptic membranes. Cleavage at the
Pro10-Tyr11 bond by endopeptidase 24.11 (enkephalinase) and a peptidase different
from proline-endopeptidase.

Checler F, Emson PC, Vincent JP, Kitabgi P.

It was shown previously that the tridecapeptide neurotensin is inactivated by rat
brain synaptic membranes and that one of the primary inactivating cleavages
occurs at the Pro10-Try11 peptide bond, leading to the formation of NT1-10 and
NT11-13. The present study was designed to investigate the possibility that this 
cleavage was catalyzed by proline endopeptidase and/or endopeptidase 24.11
(enkephalinase). Purified rat brain synaptic membranes were found to contain a
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Pro-4-methyl-coumarinyl-7-amide-hydrolyzin g activity
that was markedly inhibited (93%) by the proline endopeptidase inhibitor
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Pro-Prolinal and partially blocked (25%) by an antiproline
endopeptidase antiserum. In contrast, the cleavage of neurotensin at the
Pro10-Tyr11 bond by synaptic membranes was not affected by
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Pro-Prolinal and the antiserum. When the conversion of NT1-10
to NT1-8 by angiotensin converting enzyme was blocked by captopril and when the
processing of NT11-13 by aminopeptidase(s) was inhibited by bestatin, it was
found that thiorphan, a potent endopeptidase 24.11 inhibitor, partially decreased
the formation of NT1-10 and NT11-13 by synaptic membranes.IN CONCLUSION: (1)
proline endopeptidase, although it is present in synaptic membranes, is not
involved in the cleavage of neurotensin at the Pro10-Tyr11 bond; (2)
endopeptidase 24.11 only partially contributes to this cleavage; (3) there exists
in rat brain synaptic membranes a peptidase different from proline endopeptidase 
and endopeptidase 24.11 that is mainly responsible for inactivating neurotensin
by cleaving at the Pro10-Tyr11 bond.

PMID: 6387047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1670. Metabolism. 1984 Nov;33(11):1011-5.

Sex and insulin sensitivity.

Yki-Järvinen H.

To analyze whether enhanced adiposity in females as compared with males is
associated with a decreased sensitivity to insulin, a group of healthy normal
weight females (n = 13, age 21 +/- 1 years) and males (n = 11, age 23 +/- 1 year,
mean +/- SEM) was studied. In each subject, body composition (% fat and %
muscle), maximal aerobic power (VO2 max) and whole body insulin-mediated glucose 
metabolism were measured. The group of women had a higher percentage of fat to
total body weight (P less than 0.001) and a lower percentage of muscle (P less
than 0.001) than the group of men. The higher percentage of fat in women compared
with males was due to enhanced peripheral fat accumulation in the arm and thigh
regions. VO2 max levels were comparable in both groups (48 +/- 1 mL/kg/min for
women, 53 +/- 2 mL/kg/min for men, P = NS). The rate of glucose metabolism (M)
was comparable in women (8.78 +/- 0.74 mg/kg/min), and men (8.31 +/- 0.89
mg/kg/min) when expressed per kilogram of total body weight, but when expressed
per kilogram of muscle tissue (Mm), it was 45% higher in women (29.4 +/- 2.4
mg/kg/min) than in men (20.2 +/- 1.6 mg/kg/min, P less than 0.005). Partial
correlation analysis indicated that the percentage of fat was inversely related
to M and Mm in both women (P less than 0.05) and men (P less than 0.05), but not 
to percentage of muscle or VO2 max.CONCLUSIONS: (1) Insulin-mediated glucose
disposal is inversely related to adiposity in normal weight healthy males and
females.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6387364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1671. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Nov;85(11):1426-32.

[Production of monoclonal antibodies specific to human lung cancer--squamous cell
carcinoma and adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Saji S.

Hybridomas secreting monoclonal antibodies specific for human lung cancer were
produced by fusing immunized mouse spleen cells with mouse myeloma line
653.METHODS: BALB/c mice were hyperimmunized with two different histological
types of human lung cancer (squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) obtained 
from surgery. An immunocytoadherence test was used to select hybridomas secreting
antibodies that bound to the patient's lung tumor but did not bind to a
B-lymphoblastoid cell line derived from the same patient. Five stable
antibody-producing hybrids (2C6, 5D7 and 5E8 derived from squamous cell
carcinoma, 5C7 and 2B7 derived from adenocarcinoma) have been established and
cloned.
RESULTS: The antibodies bound to other lung tumors and established lung tumor
cell lines of the same histological type. Also, some significant reactivity was
observed with large cell carcinoma, but the antibodies did not react with small
cell carcinoma of the lung, bronchiolo-alveolar cell carcinoma, cancer of the
stomach and esophagus, melanoma, several types of leukemias, normal human lung
tissue, fibroblasts, or erythrocytes of type A, B or O. Two of the five
antibodies, 5C7 and 5E8 cross-reacted with one breast cancer obtained from
surgery and 5C7 also cross-reacted with one melanoma biopsy specimen. Moreover,
the antibodies have been characterized according to their light and heavy chain
isotypes by ouchterlony and radioimmunoassay.

PMID: 6521722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Resuscitation. 1984 Nov;12(3):213-21.

Delayed recovery of behavior after anesthesia in rats.

Hendrickx HH, Safar P, Miller A.

Early, complete recovery from general anesthesia is of importance for
outpatients, in resuscitation research and in behavior testing of neonates. A
model was designed to study behavior during the first week of recovery from
anesthesia in rats, using two methods: spontaneous and unrestrained locomotor
activity was tested and passive avoidance of electroshock was studied in a two
session, one trial model. Neurologic deficit and ease of handling were also
tested. After anesthesia with halothane 1-2% in N2O/O2 for 30 min, spontaneous
activity was reduced, compared with unanesthetized rats, for up to at least 48 h.
On day 6 post-anesthesia, locomotor activity was recovered, and, on days 4 and 5,
passive avoidance was unchanged. Neurologic deficits were absent after the first 
hour of recovery and ease of handling was unchanged.CONCLUSION: Halothane and
nitrous oxide have prolonged effects on locomotor behavior beyond the immediate
post-anesthesia recovery period, at a time when neurologic deficit testing does
not reveal any abnormalities. The model is suitable for the comparison of
recovery from different anesthesia techniques in rats.

PMID: 6096947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1673. Ann Surg. 1984 Oct;200(4):543-53.

Radiation to the breast. Complications amenable to surgical treatment.

Bostwick J, Stevenson TR, Nahai F, Hester TR, Coleman JJ, Jurkiewicz MJ.

Major complications of radiation directed to the breast, axilla, and mediastinum 
were treated in 54 patients from 1974 to 1983. A classification of these
complications facilitates both an understanding of the pattern of injury and the 
development of a treatment plan.CLASSIFICATION: I. Breast necrosis; II.
Radionecrosis and Chest Wall Ulceration; III. Accelerated Coronary
Atherosclerosis with Median Sternotomy Wound Failure After Coronary
Revascularization; IV. Brachial Plexus Pain and Paresis; V. Lymphedema and
Axillary Cicatrix; VI. Radiation-induced Neoplasia. The treatment has evolved
during the 10-year study period to excision of the necrotic wound, including any 
tumor, and closure with a transposed muscle or musculocutaneous flap of
latissimus dorsi (II, III, V) or rectus abdominis (I, II, VI). This strategy
reflects a change from primary use of the omentum during the first years of the
study. The vascularity, oxygen and antibiotic delivery of these muscle and
musculocutaneous flaps promote wound healing, usually with one operation. The
transfer of these muscles has not caused significant functional deficits.

PMCID: PMC1250527
PMID: 6486905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1674. Arch Intern Med. 1984 Oct;144(10):1947-53.

Low-dose captopril for the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension. I. Results
of a 14-week trial. Veterans Administration Cooperative Study Group on
Antihypertensive Agents.

[No authors listed]

We randomized 495 men with uncomplicated hypertension (diastolic BP, 92 to 109 mm
Hg) to one of five captopril regimens at the following dosages: 12.5 mg three
times a day, 25 mg three times a day, 37.5 mg twice daily, 50 mg three times a
day, or placebo three times a day. After seven weeks, BP reduction with each
captopril dose was greater than in the placebo group, averaging 10.2 to 14.2/8.6 
to 10.5 mm Hg. Captopril, 37.5 mg/day, was as effective as 150 mg/day.
Hydrochlorothiazide, 25 mg twice daily, was added for seven more weeks to all
patients receiving placebo and to two thirds of those randomized to captopril
therapy. Blood pressure reduction averaged 12.0/8.7 mm Hg in those receiving
hydrochlorothiazide alone and 24.9 to 26.4/14.4 to 17.3 mm Hg in those receiving 
a combination of hydrochlorothiazide and captopril. Added hydrochlorothiazide
greatly enhanced the antihypertensive response. The 15 terminations (4.3%)
related to captopril were not life threatening.CONCLUSION: Captopril treatment of
uncomplicated hypertension may be initiated with 37.5 mg/day--half the currently 
recommended dose.

PMID: 6237623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Endocrinology. 1984 Oct;115(4):1568-76.

Effects of insulin-like growth factors on adult male rat pituitary function in
tissue culture.

Goodyer CG, De Stephano L, Guyda HJ, Posner BI.

To determine the direct effects of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) on
pituitary secretion of GH, PRL, and ACTH, adult male rat pituitary explant
cultures were tested with acute (3-4 h) or chronic (24 h) exposure to a
semipurified preparation of IGF peptides, free of immunoreactive insulin,
containing IGF-I and IGF-II in a ratio of approximately 1:4. To examine the
effect of serum binding proteins on IGF bioactivity, certain experiments were run
in parallel using culture medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum or 1%
purified BSA. To compare IGF effects with those of known regulators of pituitary 
function, cultures were also tested with SRIF, TRH, human pancreatic GH-releasing
factor, insulin, and human GH (hGH). IGFs, at 10-100 ngeq/ml, were able to
inhibit significantly both basal and (1 mM) theophylline-stimulated rat GH (rGH) 
and rat PRL (rPRL) release during acute (3-4 h) exposure. Only the higher
concentration (100 ngeq/ml) was consistently effective in inhibiting rGH and rPRL
output after 24 h in culture, due to gradual metabolism of IGF peptides by the
cells. Parallel experiments carried out in medium containing 10% fetal bovine
serum or 1% BSA gave similar results, demonstrating that IGF serum binding
proteins did not interfere with IGF bioactivity in this test system. Chronic
5-day exposure to IGFs, at 100 ngeq/ml, resulted in a significant inhibition of
rGH release for the entire 5-day period and rPRL release for the first 3 days.
IGFs (10-100 ngeq/ml) had no acute or chronic effect on basal or
theophylline-stimulated ACTH release. Purified IGF-I (50 ng/ml) and IGF-II (50
ng/ml) gave approximately equivalent effects on basal rGH and rPRL release during
an acute (3 h) exposure suggesting that both IGFs can exert inhibitory influence 
on pituitary function. Ten thousand nanograms per ml insulin and 10(-9) M SRIF
had acute inhibitory effects on rGH and rPRL release similar to what were
observed for 100 ngeq/ml semipurified IGFs. hGH (200 and 1000 ng/ml) had no
effect on rGH, rPRL, or ACTH release when administered either acutely (3-4 h) or 
chronically (24 h).CONCLUSIONS: These studies demonstrate that IGFs, administered
acutely or chronically, directly inhibit basal as well as theophylline-stimulated
rGH and rPRL output by the rat pituitary; ACTH release remains unaltered.
Insulin, at high concentrations, can mimic these effects, whereas hGH has no
effect either acutely or chronically.

PMID: 6148234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1676. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1984 Oct;19(7):990-4.

Gallbladder emptying and gastrointestinal cyclic motor activity in humans.

Kraglund K, Hjermind J, Jensen FT, Stødkilde-Jørgensen H, Oster-Jørgensen E,
Pedersen SA.

The purpose of the present work was to answer two questions: does the human
gallbladder empty in the fasting state, and, if so, is the emptying related to a 
specific phase of the activity in the gastrointestinal tract? The material
consisted of nine healthy volunteers and the motility recordings were done with a
perfused low-compliance system. Gallbladder emptying was recorded by the use of
scintigraphy with 99mTc-HIDA. Eleven activity fronts were observed, and seven
periods of gallbladder emptying were recorded. Reduction in counts over the
gallbladder ranged from 8% to 32%. All emptyings took place in connection with
phase-II activity in the intestine. Three were in close proximity to the
following phase-III activity, and the other four occurred early in a phase II.
Four activity fronts were not accompanied by output of bile.CONCLUSIONS: bile
output from the gallbladder occurs in fasting humans, and gallbladder emptying
takes place in connection with phase-II activity in the intestine but not always 
in close connection with the following phase-III activity.

PMID: 6531669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1677. Surgery. 1984 Oct;96(4):694-702.

Partial splenic embolization, an alternative to splenectomy--results of a
prospective, randomized study.

Mozes MF, Spigos DG, Pollak R, Abejo R, Pavel DG, Tan WS, Jonasson O.

We conducted a prospective, randomized study comparing transcatheter partial
splenic embolization (PSE) with splenectomy (SX) in 53 renal transplant
candidates. An additional 112 PSE procedures were performed for various
indications in 101 patients.STUDY RESULTS: A mean +/- SD of 65% +/- 16% of
splenic mass was ablated in the PSE group. The early postoperative morbidity rate
was similar in the two study groups, as was the duration of hospital stay.
Abscess or rupture of the spleen were not encountered. Severe pancreatitis
occurred only in the SX group. Renal transplantation was carried out in
equivalent numbers in both groups, with a similar long-term (2.5 to 4.0 years)
graft survival (60% versus 66%). No difference in long-term patient mortality was
noted. Splenic "regeneration" occurred frequently after PSE. PSE experience
exclusive of study: Embolization attempts failed in nine patients. Repeat PSE was
performed in 11 of the 101 patients. Where hypersplenism was the primary
indication, PSE resulted in significant improvement in the hematologic
parameters. The incidence of serious complications was acceptably low. There were
two late procedure-related deaths. Our conclusion from the study and the total
experience of 137 PSE procedures is that PSE offers an acceptably safe
alternative to SX in selected high-risk patients in whom both the surgical
intervention and the resulting asplenic state carry a prohibitive risk.

PMID: 6385316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Surgery. 1984 Oct;96(4):738-44.

Operation for diagnosis and treatment of pericardial effusions.

Little AG, Kremser PC, Wade JL, Levett JM, DeMeester TR, Skinner DB.

An experience with 32 consecutive patients with pericardial effusions is reviewed
and presented. Malignant effusions: Twenty patients had underlying malignancy.
Five had no symptoms, nine had ambiguous symptoms, and six had pericardial
tamponade. Initial treatment in eight was pericardiocentesis, which provided
diagnosis and treatment in one but was clinically unsuccessful in seven and
caused right ventricular puncture in one. Subxiphoid pericardial window in 19
patients showed malignant involvement in six but documented a nonmalignant
effusion in 13. There were no operative complications, and no effusions have
recurred with long-term follow-up. Only two patients with true malignant
effusions had significant long-term survival as compared with 11 of 13 with
benign effusions. Uremic effusions: Six patients with renal failure required
intervention, three for hemodynamic compromise and one for possible infection.
Diagnostic pericardiocentesis documented a sterile effusion in one patient. Five 
patients had subxiphoid pericardial window without recurrence of effusion. One
patient required reexploration for rectus muscle bleeding. Other effusions: All
six patients had hemodynamic compromise. Pericardiocentesis was successful in
three of four patients but effected resolution in none. Subxiphoid pericardial
window was performed in all. The effusion recurred in a patient with
periarteritis nodosa, and a patient with viral myocarditis developed a left
ventricular pseudoaneurysm that required operation.CONCLUSIONS: Subxiphoid
pericardial window provides definitive diagnosis and treatment for pericardial
effusions of all causes with low morbidity rates whereas pericardiocentesis is
safe but usually ineffective/unproductive; many effusions in patients with cancer
are not related to malignant pericardial involvement and documentation is
important for treatment planning.

PMID: 6207601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Z Kardiol. 1984 Oct;73(10):623-7.

[Right ventricular hemodynamics and lung function following amrinone injection].

[Article in German]

Klepzig M, Baur X, Hauser F, Mernitz G, Fruhmann G, Strauer BE.

Amrinone is a positive inotropic agent which has been widely used for treatment
of left heart failure. As this drug has a relaxing effect on smooth muscle cells,
we considered that hemodynamics and ventilatory mechanics could be simultaneously
improved in patients with right heart failure caused by obstructive lung disease.
Swan-Ganz catheters were used in 11 patients. Following injection of 1.5 mg/kg
Amrinone, cardiac output increased from 6.1 to 6.9 l/min (p less than 0.05).
Stroke volume showed only a slight increase; pulmonary vascular resistance was
reduced from 407 to 308 dynes . s . cm-5 (p less than 0.01). Body
plethysmographic examination revealed a decrease of specific airway resistance
from 33 to 24 cm H2O . s (p less than 0.01).CONCLUSION: In patients with right
heart failure due to obstructive lung disease Amrinone application can result in 
an improvement in both hemodynamics and ventilatory mechanics.

PMID: 6516514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1984 Sep 28;96(18):685-96.

[Antiarrhythmic effect and side effects of amiodarone].

[Article in German]

Weber H, Weissel M, Haddad R, Scheibelhofer W, Konrad K, Mlczoch J, Probst P,
Mainitz M.

Amiodarone (AM) is one of the most potent antiarrhythmic drugs, the value of
which is limited by reversible and irreversible side-effects (SE). 59 patients,
50 male, 9 female (age 33 to 81 years) entered the study with ventricular
tachycardia (VT, 68%), WPW-tachycardia (12%), non-sustained VT (12%) or
untreatable paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia (8%). 
Prior to AM the patients had received 1 to 8 different antiarrhythmic drugs (m
3.5) and maximal 9 different combinations of antiarrhythmics. The drug regimen
started with a loading dose of 1200 mg/d for 1 to 2 weeks and was continued with 
a maintenance dose of 200 to 600 mg/d. The patients were followed up 1 to 41
months (m 14 m). The drug effect was evaluated using clinical criteria
(recurrence of arrhythmias, death), computer-assisted analysis of several 24 hr
long-term ECGs and programmed electrophysiological stimulation. Three- to
six-monthly the patients were seen in our outpatient department for check up and 
blood-sample analysis (liver, thyroid gland etc.). Also in the majority of the
patients frequent ophthalmological and dermatological investigations, as well as 
lung functions tests were carried out.RESULTS: under AM therapy the initial
arrhythmias were no longer detectable in 41% of the patients. In 37% a
significant amelioration of the formerly life-threatening arrhythmias was found. 
7 patients (12%), predominantly with reduced left ventricular function, died
during follow up. No pulmonary, hepatotoxic or neurological SE were found. All
patients developed reversible AM keratopathy. In 27% ETR and T4 were elevated,
but only one patient developed hyperthyroidism with an increase in TT3. Another
patient showed signs of hypothyroidism with an elevated TSH prior to TRH
stimulation. Increased phototoxicity was found in 31%, whereas in two patients
typical AM hyperpigmentation occurred, especially on the face. In conclusion, AM 
is a highly effective antiarrhythmic agent, despite a negatively selected
collective, but it should only be used in patients with refractory arrhythmia in 
view of the SE.

PMID: 6523885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1984 Sep 5;775(3):402-8.

Absorption of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate in rat jejunum with intact blood and
lymphatic vessels.

Said HM, Hollander D, Katz D.

Transport results from in vitro studies may not be applicable to in vivo
situations. In this study, we extended our previous in vitro observations
regarding the intestinal transport of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to in vivo studies
in the unanesthetized rat and examined the effect of the unstirred water layer on
the absorption process. We used a well defined intestinal perfusion technique.
Absorption of 0.5 and 5 microM 5-methyltetrahydrofolate proceeded in a linear
manner for 40 min of perfusion at 0.31 and 1.74 nmol/100 cm per min,
respectively. Absorption of 0.5 microM 5-methyltetrahydrofolate increased with
increasing perfusate flow-rate from 0.5 to 2 to 4 ml/min, indicating an unstirred
water layer influence on the absorption rate. Absorption of the substrate was
saturable with an apparent Kt of 5.7 microM and Vmax of 3.45 nmol/100 cm per min.
Absorption was pH-dependent, and was inhibited by structural analogues. In
contrast to the in vitro data, addition of glucose (20 mM) to the perfusate was
unnecessary for in vivo absorption to proceed. Unconjugated cholic (5 mM) and
deoxycholic (1 mM) acids and the organic anion rose bengal (0.1 mM) inhibited the
absorption of 0.5 microM 5-methyltetrahydrofolate when added to the
perfusate.CONCLUSIONS: the results of previous in vitro studies of
5-methyltetrahydrofolate intestinal transport are applicable to in vivo
situations, except that luminal glucose was found to be unnecessary in the
latter. The unstirred water layer modulated the absorption of
5-methyltetrahydrofolate, while unconjugated bile acids and rose bengal inhibited
it.

PMID: 6466681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. Diabetes. 1984 Sep;33(9):872-8.

Phasic glucose-stimulated insulin secretion by neonatal rat pancreatic islet
cells. Enhancement by sodium salicylate.

Fujimoto WY, Metz SA.

Monolayer cultures of neonatal rat pancreatic islets were superfused to examine
phasic insulin secretion. When stimulated with a constant glucose concentration
of 300 mg/dl, insulin secretion promptly rose to a peak more than eightfold
higher than the basal levels observed with glucose 30 mg/dl. This first-phase
peak was followed by a quick decline in insulin to a level about four- to
fivefold higher than basal, representing second-phase insulin secretion. Addition
of sodium salicylate 20 mg/dl enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.
Addition of salicylate concurrently with glucose greatly enhanced second-phase
insulin secretion, but did not affect the first-phase peak, thereby converting
the biphasic pattern to one that appeared to be monophasic. However, when
cultures were superfused with salicylate both before and concurrent with
stimulation by glucose, both the first-phase peak and the second phase of insulin
secretion were increased, resulting in not only preservation but enhancement of
the biphasic pattern. Salicylate had no effect on basal insulin secretion at
glucose 30 mg/dl. During the transition from glucose 300 mg/dl to 30 mg/dl,
immediately as glucose concentration began to fall in the superfusate, insulin
secretion showed a transient increase ("off response").CONCLUSIONS: (1) Cultures 
of neonatal rat pancreatic islet cells respond with a biphasic pattern of insulin
secretion when exposed to a continuous and constant glucose stimulus. (2) When
endogenous prostaglandin synthesis is inhibited by sodium salicylate, the
biphasic pattern not only remains but is enhanced, indicating that endogenous
prostaglandin synthesis exerts a tonic restraint throughout the entire period of 
glucose-stimulated phasic insulin release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6381182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1683. J Trauma. 1984 Sep;24(9):811-7.

Muscle ischemia and hypothermia: a bioenergetic study using 31phosphorus nuclear 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Osterman AL, Heppenstall RB, Sapega AA, Katz M, Chance B, Sokolow D.

Following traumatic limb amputation it is common clinical practice to maintain
the ischemic tissues in a hypothermic state until surgical reimplantation. Of all
extremity tissues, muscle is the most sensitive to ischemia; it is therefore
imperative that reperfusion be established before diffuse muscle necrosis.
Although it has been shown both clinically and experimentally that hypothermia
prolongs the viability of ischemic skeletal muscle, the presumed mechanism by
which this occurs has not been confirmed at the cellular level. This study was
undertaken to quantify the effect of conventional iced-saline hypothermia on
anaerobic cell metabolism and high-energy phosphate depletion in traumatically
devascularized muscle.METHODS: Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy
(31P NMR) was employed to noninvasively monitor cellular phosphocreatine (PCr),
ATP, and intracellular pH over time in ischemic cat hindlimb muscle under room
temperature (22 degrees C) and 1 degree C hypothermic conditions.
RESULTS: Muscular PCr depletion was significantly retarded by tissue hypothermia 
but the rate of ATP depletion was not. A progressive, severe cellular acidosis
was observed in the room-temperature muscle. Iced tissue cooling produced a
dramatic initial rise in cell pH which significantly reduced the absolute degree 
of subsequent acidotic changes.
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings question our understanding of hypothermic tissue
preservation, which has generally been assumed to work on the basis of decreased 
tissue metabolism, thus conserving critical cellular ATP levels. The empirical
benefit derived by cooling muscle in an iced medium may actually be related to
the cellular alkalinization produced by tissue cooling, as this significantly
mitigates the profound acidosis that would otherwise occur.

PMID: 6481831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Sep;85(9):1035-8.

[Islet cell tumor:insulinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Kuroda A, Morioka Y, Kasahara K, Tenmoku S.

Twenty-eight patients with insulinoma treated at our institutions during the
years 1935-1983 were available for this study. These patients included 15 males
and 13 females ranging 20 to 77 years of age and averaging 48 years.DIAGNOSIS:
Inappropriate elevations of plasma insulin (IRI/BS greater than 0.3) in the
fasting state were demonstrated in all 18 patients. Accurate tumor localization
was defined by arteriography in 61% of 18 patients. Decision of localization by
transhepatic portal catheterization and insulin assay was successful in all of 4 
patients in whom it was performed. Pathology: Twenty-five patients had a single
tumor and 3 had multiple tumors. The tumor was located in the head in 8, in the
body in 12 and in the tail in 14. Thirty of 34 tumors were benign and 4 were
malignant.
SURGICAL TREATMENT: Enucleation was performed in 6 patients, 19 patients
underwent distal pancreatectomy and one patient had pancreatoduodenectomy, One
patient with occult tumor in the head had 80% resection of the pancreas. One
patient with two tiny occult tumors close to the duodenum underwent distal left
to right pancreatectomy finally resulting in total pancreatectomy.
RESULT: There was no operative death and no recurrence of symptoms in all
patients after operation.

PMID: 6095015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1685. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Sep;58(9):919-36.

[Experimental studies on polyacetal composites for joint prosthesis].

[Article in Japanese]

Maeda M.

Composite polymer resin is one of the most promising materials for its excellent 
bio-functions. The purpose of the present studies is to prove the applicability
of polyacetal composites as a biomaterial for joint prostheses from in vivo as
well as in vitro experiments.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The polymeric materials
tested in the studies were acetal copolymer resin (POM) reinforced with 20%
carbon fiber (CR20), POM with 10% fluorine powder (YF 10), POM alone, ultra high 
molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) and UHMWPE reinforced with 10% carbon
fiber (Poly two). Experiment I: Evaluation of biocompatibility in vivo by
injecting polymeric powders into the abdominal cavity of mice, and in vitro with 
a tissue culture method. Experiment II: Friction and wear tests with a slider and
a plate under different lubricants, the slider was made of stainless steel or
ceramic. Coefficient of friction and specific wear rate were measured, and the
wear surface was observed with scanning electron microscope (SEM). Müller type
acetabular cups used for the simulation test were made of reinforced POMs,
UHMWPE, and Poly two. A walk simulator was made to test the tribological behavior
of hip joint prostheses in which the frictional counterpart was made of ceramic. 
Roughness of the wear surface, and ultimate frictional torque were measured and
the surface microstructure was observed with SEM. Experiment III: Application for
joint replacement. As a first step, screwshaped test pieces were inserted into
the proximal end of the tibia of Beagle dogs, and ultimate rotating torque was
measured to investigate the degree of fixation of reinforced POMs to the bone. A 
hip joint prosthesis of self-locking and cementless type was made and implanted
in 12 dogs. Nine dogs were sacrificed more than 24 weeks after the implantation
and investigated radiographically and histopathologically.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Reinforced POMs showed similar biocompatibility as other
biomaterials for joint prostheses. In the combination with ceramic, the
coefficient of CR20 tends to decrease with the increase of load and prolapsed
time. SEM findings showed low specific wear. After the simulation test, the
surface of CR20 cup became smoother. Poly two showed almost the same frictional
torque as CR20, but its reinforced carbon fibers seem to be easily drifted away
from the wear surface. The CR20 test pieces showed as firm fixation to the bone
as those of stainless steel. The implantation tests were excellent in 2 and good 
in 3 dogs at the point of fixation of the socket with the bone out of 9 dogs
tested.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6520501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1686. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Sep;58(9):873-86.

[Morphological changes of the cervical spinal canal and cord due to aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka Y.

Cervical spondylotic myelopathy is a condition in which degenerative changes of
the cervical vertebral bodies and the intervertebral discs cause disturbances to 
the spinal cord either by direct mechanical compression or by disturbing the
blood supply. There have been a number of studies on roentgenological
measurements of the anteroposterior (AP) diameter of the cervical spinal canal
relating to the disorder. However, there are only a few reports concerning the
shape and the size of the spinal canal and the spinal cord. Murone reported that 
the cervical spinal canal of Japanese was significantly smaller than those of
Europeans on roentgenograms. However, whether the size of the spinal cord of
Japanese is proportionally smaller or not remains to be studied. The aim of the
present study is to perform various measurements of the human cervical spine
specimens to find any influence of the age on them and to see relative
correlation of the spinal cord size to the corresponding spinal canal
size.METHODS: Seventy-seven human cervical spinal columns taken én bloc from C3
to C7 at post-mortem examination were used for the study. After taking AP and
lateral roentgenograms, the specimen was horizontally transsected at the middle
of each vertebral body and at the level of each intervertebral disc. The reason
why the middle of the vertebral body was selected is to exclude modifications by 
osteophyte formation at the upper and the lower ends of the body and to see
possible genuine appearance and change of the spinal canal. The measured items
were AP diameter of the vertebral body (A), AP diameter of the spinal canal (B), 
area of the spinal canal (C), AP diameter of the spinal cord (beta) and area of
the spinal cord (gamma). In five untreated specimens, CT-scan was performed prior
to the horizontal section, and the CT-scan findings were compared to those by
direct measurements. Lateral cervical roentgenograms of 249 patients of various
ages were used as a comparison.
RESULTS: The AP diameter of the vertebral body (A) and the AP diameter of the
spinal canal (B) showed some correlation with the age. The former became larger
whereas the latter became smaller with the age. The area of the spinal canal (C) 
did not show correlation with the age. The AP diameter of the spinal cord (beta) 
showed correlation with the age, whereas the area of the spinal cord (gamma)
failed to show the correlation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6520497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Stroke. 1984 Sep-Oct;15(5):803-12.

Multifaceted therapy after global brain ischemia in monkeys.

Gisvold SE, Safar P, Rao G, Moossy J, Kelsey S, Alexander H.

The pathophysiology of postischemic encephalopathy is complex, and includes
tissue acidosis, edema, hypoperfusion, membrane dysfunction, impaired energy
production, and possibly hypermetabolism. We tested the hypothesis that this
multifactorial clinical problem must be approached with multifaceted therapy,
with specific treatment aimed at each of the above postischemic changes. Eighteen
minutes of complete global brain ischemia was produced with a higher pressure
neck cuff in pigtailed monkeys. Control treatment postischemia (n = 9): 1)
Normotension (MAP greater than or equal to 80 mmHg) restored within 2 min
postischemia, 2) controlled ventilation for 24 hours with PaCO2 = 25 mmHg, 3)
normothermia, and 4) phenytoin seizure prophylaxis from 20 hours postischemia.
Experimental treatment (n = 10): Control treatment plus the following
modifications: 1) Hemodilution to hematocrit 25% at 1-4 min postischemia, 2)
brief hypertension (MAP 130 mmHg for 5 min) after accomplished hemodilution, 3)
hypothermia for 6 hours, 4) pentobarbital 30 mg/kg i.v., 5) dexamethasone 4 mg/kg
i.v. Outcome was evaluated at 96 hours postischemia by overall performance
categories (OPC) (OPC I = normal, OPC V = brain death), neurologic deficit (ND)
scores (100% ND = brain death, 0% ND = normal), and histologic damage scores of
the brains.RESULTS: Brain death developed in 1/9 control and 0/10 treated
animals. The number of awake monkeys (OPC I and II) at 96 hours postischemia was 
significantly higher in the treated group (7/10) than in the control group (2/9) 
(p = 0.05). The median ND scores for the two groups were 16 and 35% respectively 
(p greater than 0.05). The results strongly suggest that postischemic treatment
may be beneficial and that a multifaceted therapeutic approach is worth pursuing.

PMID: 6474530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. Surgery. 1984 Sep;96(3):545-9.

Weight loss and metabolic changes of morbidly obese patients after gastric
partitioning operation.

Tsoi CM, Westenskow DR, Moody FG.

Weight loss, alterations in basal metabolic rate, and utilization of body fat,
carbohydrate, and protein substrates were studied in nine patients before
operation and 3 and 12 months after gastric partitioning operation for morbid
obesity. Respiratory oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide excretion measurements
were taken three consecutive mornings by the open circuit-Scholander technique.
Measurements of urine urea nitrogen were made from 24-hour urine collections.
Basal metabolic rate and utilization of fat, carbohydrate, and protein were
calculated in kilocalories per minute by indirect calorimetry. Initial body
weight was 124.5 +/- 19.0 kg (mean +/- SD). The weight losses between
measurements at months 0 and 3 and at months 3 and 12 were 20.8 +/- 4.6 kg and
2.7 +/- 8.4 kg, respectively. Total weight loss between months 0 and 12 was 23.5 
+/- 8.3 kg (19.3% +/- 7.4%). At 3 months the fraction of basal metabolic rate
contributed by carbohydrate (p less than 0.05) and protein (p less than 0.01)
utilization decreased significantly, while that contributed by fat increased (p
less than 0.05). Between months 0 and 12 there was no significant difference in
protein or carbohydrate utilization, but fat utilization increased (p less than
0.10).CONCLUSIONS: Gastric partitioning operation resulted in an initial rapid
body weight loss over 3 months with a sustained reduction over 1 year; there was 
a metabolic utilization shift to fat with carbohydrate and protein sparing; no
metabolic parameter was predictive of weight loss; and temporally, the rapid
weight loss was paralleled by a significant metabolic utilization shift, and the 
sustained loss was paralleled by a stabilization of this shift.

PMID: 6474359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. Z Kardiol. 1984 Sep;73(9):578-85.

[Anti-angina effect of gallopamil in comparison with another calcium antagonist
and a placebo].

[Article in German]

Hopf R, Drews H, Kaltenbach M.

In 12 male patients with angiographically confirmed coronary heart disease and
stable angina the antianginal effects of 50 mg Gallopamil have been studied in
comparison with 10 mg Nifedipine and placebo. The study has been carried out
using a double-blind cross-over protocol with standardized exercise stress tests.
Patients underwent 5 exercise step tests, without any medication and 120 minutes 
after randomized drug administration (placebo, placebo, Gallopamil, Nifedipine). 
Both Gallopamil and Nifedipine had good antianginal effects. Following 50 mg
Gallopamil, ischemic ST-depression was reduced by 45% compared to placebo and by 
50% compared to ergometry without any medication. The reduction of ST-depression 
after 10 mg Nifedipine was 26% compared to placebo and 31% compared to a
drug-free exercise test. Due to the negative chronotropic effects, Gallopamil led
to a slight but significant reduction of heart rate at rest and during exercise
of about 5%. In contrast, after Nifedipine administration, a reflex-mediated
increase in heart rate could be seen. In normotensive patients both
channel-blocking agents showed a slight reduction of arterial blood
pressure.CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate a considerable antianginal effect of a
single oral dose of 50 mg Gallopamil. In comparison to 10 mg Nifedipine this
effect is more pronounced.

PMID: 6391005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Aug;36(8):1213-22.

[Correlation between cell cycle and cell morphology of RKN cells].

[Article in Japanese]

Nozawa S, Widjaja T, Arai H, Tsukazaki K, Nagai S, Kurihara S, Sugishita T,
Tenjin Y.

In order to study the changes in the morphology of each phase of the cell cycle, 
RKN cells, derived from a human ovarian myosarcoma, were synchronized by a
mitotic selection method and studied under time-lapse cinematography, light
microscopy, scanning and transmission electron microscopy.RESULTS: M-phase: The
cells with relatively a few cytoplasmic organelles were small and spherical, and 
chromosome were seen in them. The cell surface was covered with numerous mivilli.
Late G1,S and early G2 phase: The large, thin cells were flat and polygonal with 
various organelles inside and had central nuclei. Most of the chromatin patterns 
were finely granular. No microvilli were found on the cell surface. Early
G1-phase: The paired daughter cells were fanshaped and the nuclei were eccentric 
with finely granular chromatin patterns. At the edges of the cells, rufflers
which were related to cell movements were often seen. Late G2-phase: The thick
cells were of a spindle shape and the chromatin patterns were a coarse granular
type. Again on the cell surface microvilli increased and the slender filopodia
were often seen.

PMID: 6512337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1691. No To Shinkei. 1984 Aug;36(8):789-95.

[A case of spongiform encephalopathy with ataxia and amyloid plaques].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshimura T, Tateishi J, Tsujihata M, Muro T, Mameya G, Nagataki S.

CASE: A 63-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of gait disturbance.
His daughter died of the same disorder at age 29. In 1974, at age 59, the patient
noticed mild recent memory disturbance and clumsiness in handwriting. In 1976,
his gait was markedly unstable, but he could walk without assistance, and his
speech became dysarthric. In spring, 1977, he was unable to walk without
assistance. From Jan. 9, 1978, through Feb. 14, 1978, he was hospitalized in our 
hospital. Neurological examination revealed an ataxic gait and scanning speech.
Deep tendon reflexes of the upper extremities and ankle jerks were normal, but
knee jerks were absent. Pathological reflexes were not elicited. Both superficial
and deep sensations were normal. He was alert and showed no overt dementia.
Laboratory data including CSF, EEG and brain CT were normal except positive TPHA 
in serum. Thereafter, he was followed up with the diagnosis of spinocerebellar
degeneration. In 1979, he developed a limb ataxia. In spring, 1980, he became
very irritable and was easily excited. He gradually developed dementia and
urinary incontinence. In 1981, his illness progressed to an akinetic mutism and
died of pneumonia on July 19, 1981. Myoclonus and periodic synchronous discharges
in EEG were not observed until his death. The brain was 1,075 g in weight after
formalin fixation and the cerebrum was generally soft. The gyri showed no
evidence of abnormalities or atrophy, while the cerebellum and brain stem,
especially the pons, were atrophic. The arterial and venous systems showed no
remarkable changes. The spinal cord was externally unremarkable. The ventricles
were dilated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6388608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Scand J Haematol. 1984 Aug;33(2):171-6.

Acquired factor VIII:C inhibitor (IgG) and positive direct Coombs' test (IgM) in 
a patient with lung carcinoma. Clinical course and immunochemical studies.

de Cataldo F, Baudo F, Redaelli R, Pezzetti L.

A 73-year-old man with lung squamous-cell carcinoma simultaneously developed a
factor VIII:C inhibitor and a transient positive direct Coombs' test. The factor 
VIII:C inhibitor was characterized as a mixture of IgG1, IgG2, IgG4 with kappa
and lambda light chains. The Coombs' test was IgM-specific.TREATMENT: blood
transfusions (packed red cells), cyclophosphamide and prednisone. Bleeding
subsided without factor VIII-replacement therapy. Before death, in spite of the
tumour-mass progression, factor VIII:C was normal.

PMID: 6433437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. Surgery. 1984 Aug;96(2):196-203.

Effect of topical bile acids on gastric surface epithelial cells.

Carter KJ, Farley PC, Ritchie WP Jr.

Attempts to assess the integrity of the gastric surface epithelial cell layer
have been hampered by the lack of a quantitative index of surface cell injury.
Two approaches: scanning electron microscopy and measurement of DNA efflux (DNAE)
were used to assess surface cell injury produced by topical bile acids.
Taurocholic acid (TC) at 0, 2.5, 5, and 10 mM concentrations in both neutral
(NTS, pH = 7.0) and acid test solution (ATS, pH = 1.2) was applied to chambered
vascularized wedges of proximal canine gastric mucosa for sequential 30-minute
study periods. In part I surface cell morphology was assessed by scanning
electron microscopy in 28 mucosae exposed to NTS, NTS + TC, ATS, or ATS + TC, and
the effect of the mucolytic agent N-acetyl-L-cysteine (acetylcysteine) at pH 7.0 
was studied in 10 additional mucosae. In part II DNAE, net cation fluxes, and
mean potential difference (PD) per 30-minute period were measured. In 16 animals 
10% acetylcysteine was applied topically after period III to dissolve gastric
mucus and allow recovery of exfoliated cells. Nineteen additional mucosae were
treated with acetylcysteine between each study period.RESULTS: By scanning
electron microscopy, mucosae exposed to NTS, NTS + TC, or ATS maintained an
intact layer of surface epithelial cells. ATS + TC induced dose-dependent
exfoliation of sheets of surface cells. Compared with NTS, neither NTS + TC nor
ATS altered DNAE; DNAE increased only in mucosae exposed to ATS + TC. Compared
with ATS, ATS + TC increased cation fluxes and decreased PD (p less than 0.05).
DNAE correlated with delta H+, delta Na+, delta K+, and PD (r = 0.95, 0.93, 0.86,
and 0.89) (all p less than 0.05). Pretreatment with acetylcysteine increased Na+ 
flux in mucosae exposed to NTS and ATS but otherwise did not change delta H+,
delta K+, DNAE, or PD. In mucosae exposed to ATS + TC, DNAE paralleled
morphologic changes in the surface epithelial layer and physiologic alterations
in cation fluxes and PD. Both scanning electron microscopy and measurement of
DNAE appear to be useful tools in assessing surface epithelial cell injury.

PMID: 6463859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1694. Int J Cardiol. 1984 Jul;6(1):17-34.

Clinical and echocardiographic correlations in right heart endocarditis.

Panidis IP, Kotler MN, Mintz GS, Ross J, Weber J.

The echocardiographic findings were correlated with the clinical findings and
outcome in 23 patients with tricuspid valve or pulmonary valve endocarditis.
There were 15 males and 8 females with a mean age of 33.1 +/- 8.4 years. Eighteen
patients had tricuspid valve endocarditis, 1 patient had pulmonary valve
endocarditis, 3 patients had concomitant mitral valve and tricuspid valve
endocarditis, and 1 patient had tricuspid valve and pulmonary valve endocarditis.
Twenty of the 23 (87%) patients had a history of intravenous drug abuse. The most
common organisms were Staphylococcus aureus (10 of 23 patients or 43%),
Streptococcus viridans (5 patients) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (4 patients).
Pulmonary manifestations with septic pulmonary emboli were present in 18/23 (80%)
patients, and a regurgitant murmur in 16/23 (73%) patients. Vegetations on the
tricuspid valve or pulmonary valve were detected in all patients who had 2D echo,
but they were missed by M-mode echo in 2 patients. Nine of the 23 patients (40%) 
improved on medical therapy, 5 (21%) expired, and 7 (30%) required surgery
(tricuspid valve or pulmonary valve replacement in 3, and tricuspid valve
excision without replacement in 4).CONCLUSIONS: (1) 11 of 13 patients with
persistent infection, multivalvular involvement, fungal or Pseudomonas infection 
and increasing size of vegetations by echo died or underwent surgery compared to 
only 1 of 8 patients without these features (P less than 0.01). (2)
Staphylococcus aureus infection (10 patients) and flail tricuspid valve or
pulmonary valve by echo (6 patients) were not predictive of outcome.

PMID: 6746135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1695. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jul;66(6):937-50.

Improved acceptance of frozen bone allografts in genetically mismatched dogs by
immunosuppression.

Goldberg VM, Bos GD, Heiple KG, Zika JM, Powell AE.

We studied the role of immunosuppressive therapy in improving the incorporation
of frozen bone allografts exchanged across strong transplantation barriers in a
canine cancellous ulnar segmental replacement model. Dogs receiving frozen bone
from donors with major histocompatibility differences received one of three
different immunosuppressive treatments. In two groups, azathioprine and
prednisolone were administered for either twenty-eight or fifty-six days;
anti-lymphocyte globulin was added for another twenty-eight-day group in a third 
regimen. Frozen bone was evaluated radiographically and histologically by
criteria that quantified the biological characteristics of the bone itself and
union between the graft and host at thirteen and twenty-six weeks after grafting.
Graft incorporation in these animals was compared with graft acceptance in a
similar group of untreated animals and in untreated animals in which bone was
exchanged across weak transplantation barriers. Complications of
immunosuppression included wound drainage, infection, weight loss, and falling
white-blood-cell counts. Seven of the original thirty-seven animals died as a
direct result of these complications. After twenty-six weeks the grafts in the
recipients receiving immunosuppression appeared radiographically and
histologically indistinguishable from those in the untreated, genetically closely
matched group and from autografts. They were significantly better incorporated
than identical allografts placed in untreated, genetically disparate recipients. 
There was no difference in the effectiveness of any of the immunosuppressive
programs.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Immunosuppression improves the biological outcome of
otherwise poorly performing frozen bone allografts in dogs. This finding suggests
that treatments that modify the immunological response of the host without major 
side effects may be useful clinically in improving the success of massive frozen 
bone allografts.

PMID: 6376518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jul;66(6):817-36.

Pathogenic mechanisms in osteochondrodysplasias.

Stanescu V, Stanescu R, Maroteaux P.

We performed histochemical, immunohistochemical, electron-microscopic, and
microchemical studies on cartilage growth plates from sixty-eight patients with
nineteen different forms of human osteochondrodysplasia. Cartilage biopsies were 
obtained during orthopaedic procedures. Postmortem specimens were obtained within
a short time after death. The combined morphological and biochemical studies
revealed specific abnormalities suggestive of a particular biochemical defect in 
several chondrodysplasias. In pseudoachondroplasia, non-collagenous protein
accumulated in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of chondrocytes and a proteoglycan
species that normally is present in the extracellular matrix was not detected by 
gel electrophoresis. The accumulated material was stained with antibodies against
the core protein of proteoglycan. This strongly suggested that in this syndrome
an abnormal core protein of a proteoglycan species is not properly transferred to
the Golgi system. In Kniest syndrome, intracytoplasmic accumulation of
metachromatic material, dilatation of rough endoplasmic reticulum, and an
abnormal gel-electrophoretic pattern of cartilage proteoglycans suggested an
abnormality of cartilage proteoglycan metabolism. Abnormalities that probably are
related to degradative lysosomal processes of proteoglycans in chondrocytes were 
found in spondylometaphyseal dysplasia of the Kozlowski type. An abnormal
organization of type-II collagen was found in fibrochondrogenesis. In diastrophic
dysplasia, an abnormal organization of collagen was found in areas of
interterritorial matrix and around many degenerated cells, but also in the
lacunae of cells without ultrastructural signs of degeneration. The
segment-long-spacing form of collagen prepared from cartilage of three patients
with diastrophic dysplasia showed an abnormal cross-striation pattern in a
portion between bands 42 and 45, corresponding to the position of the alpha 1(II)
cyanogen-bromide-derived 10,5 peptide. This suggested that in this syndrome there
is a structural alteration of the type-II collagen molecule. There was an
accumulation of intracellular lipid in pyknodysostosis and in hypochondrogenesis,
and of glycoproteins in several atypical cases of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia.
In a pair of twins with an atypical form of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, the
presence of many multinucleated chondrocytes suggested a primary impairment of
cell division.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A knowledge of the pathogenic mechanisms in
osteochondrodysplasias might improve the classification; aid in diagnosis,
prognosis, and genetic counseling; and contribute to the understanding of normal 
endochondral growth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6376516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. J Surg Res. 1984 Jul;37(1):83-8.

16,16-Dimethyl prostaglandin E2 reverses focal mucosal ischemia associated with
stress ulcers.

Gaskill HV 3rd, Sirinek KR, Levine BA.

Focal ischemia is postulated to contribute to gastric mucosal stress ulceration. 
This study evaluated directly whether or not mucosal ulceration during
hemorrhagic shock is preceded by focal gastric mucosal blood flow changes, and
whether or not topical Dm-PGE2 (16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2) affects focal
gastric mucosal blood flow during hemorrhagic shock. Twelve anesthetized
miniature swine had pyloric ligation and intragastric infusion of 5 ml/kg
autogenous bile in 140 mM HCl. Gastric mucosal blood flow was documented by
radiolabeled microspheres during normotension, initial hemorrhagic shock (50 mm
Hg), and hemorrhagic shock + 50 micrograms topical Dm-PGE2. Stable shock was then
maintained for 3 hr. During this time ulceration developed, shedding radiolabeled
microsphere-bearing mucosa into the lumen. Intact gastric mucosa and luminal
contents were collected, weighed, and gamma counted. Blood flow to intact mucosa 
was calculated by standard techniques. The weight of shed tissue, as well as the 
blood flow to shed tissue, was calculated from luminal microspheres.RESULTS:
gastric mucosal blood flow was decreased 35% with hemorrhagic shock (28.8 +/- 4.0
vs 18.7 +/- 2.7 ml/100 g/min, P less than 0.05). Blood flow to tissue which was
subsequently shed averaged 6.4 +/- 3.1 ml/100 g/min at the same time period (P
less than 0.05 vs surrounding tissue). Addition of Dm-PGE2 increased blood flow
to shed tissue from 29 +/- 8% to 48 +/- 10% of blood flow to intact tissue (P
less than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: (1) gastric mucosal ulceration is preceded by focal decreases in
gastric mucosal blood flow, and (2) topical Dm-PGE2 reverses focal mucosal
ischemia during hemorrhagic shock. Dm-PGE2's ability to reverse focal ischemia
suggests a mechanism for prostaglandin-mediated cytoprotection.

PMID: 6738050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Jpn Circ J. 1984 Jul;48(7):678-89.

Clinical usefulness of intraaortic balloon pumping in acute myocardial infarction
complicated with cardiogenic shock, ventricular septal perforation and mitral
regurgitation.

Takano T, Endo T, Saito H, Ida T, Tanaka K, Osaka S, Ikeshita M, Yamate N,
Hayakawa H.

The effects of intraaortic balloon pumping (IABP) were studied in 91 patients
with acute myocardial infarction complicated with cardiogenic shock (75 pts),
ventricular septal perforation (VSP) (12 pts), and/or mitral regurgitation (MR)
(4 pts). Out of 44 pts with cardiogenic shock in whom IABP was performed, 14 pts 
could not recover from cardiogenic shock, 6 pts became dependent on IABP and 13
pts survived (29.5%). In contrast, out of the remaining 31 pts with cardiogenic
shock who did not undergo IABP because of inability to insert IABP catheter or
other reasons and were treated medically, only 3 pts survived (9.7%, p less than 
0.05). After the initiation of IABP, BPd, CI, SVI, SWI, TMG increased
significantly, and HR, CVP, PCWP, TPR decreased significantly. Comparison of
hemodynamic parameters after the initiation of IABP showed that SVI and SWI at 24
hours were higher and CVP lower in survivors. Out of 7 pts with VSP who underwent
IABP 2 pts were operated and survived.IN CONCLUSION: short-term mortality in pts 
with cardiogenic shock was significantly lower in IABP-treated group, hemodynamic
parameters improved after IABP, survivors from cardiogenic shock had higher SVI, 
SWI, BPd, and lower CVP than non-survivors, patients with VSP and MR had worse
prognosis in spite of IABP.

PMID: 6471345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. Med Hypotheses. 1984 Jul;14(3):261-7.

The role of atheromatous plaque rupture in the genesis of myocardial infarction.

Rail DL.

The rupture of advanced atheromatous plaques initiates a significant number of
cases of coronary artery thrombosis and subsequent myocardial
infarction.HYPOTHESIS: The range of outcomes following plaque rupture is
determined to a large extent by the interaction between the turbulent arterial
stream and the visco-elastic properties of the extruded atheromatous material.
Thrombosis is a secondary event. Research into the visco-elastic behaviour of
atheromatous material may predict predisposition to myocardial infarction.

PMID: 6472154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Jun 29;109(26):1023-8.

[Etiology of hyposiderinemia and anemia in Crohn's disease].

[Article in German]

Balzer K, Breuer N, Hotz J, Förster S, Goebell H.

In a prospective study the frequency of anaemia and serum iron deficiency was
investigated in 373 patients with Crohn's disease. Anaemia was present in 52% of 
patients, hyposiderinaemia in 37%. Involvement of the colon resulted in more
pronounced anaemia and hyposiderinaemia than in pure ileitis. For further
assessment of iron metabolism serum ferritin or iron binding capacity as well as 
intestinal iron absorption were determined in 34 patients both anaemic and
hyposiderinaemic. In 22 patients sideroachrestic anaemia due to inflammation was 
found, 5 patients showed iron deficiency due to bleeding. In 6 patients
simultaneously lowered serum iron and ferritin or increased latent iron binding
capacity with non-increased iron absorption indicated relative iron absorption
defects. In one case also the absolute intestinal iron absorption was decreased. 
However, in only one of these 7 patients typical microscopic changes of Crohn's
disease were demonstrable in the upper intestine.CONSEQUENCES: 1. Anaemia in
Crohn's disease is most frequently caused by inflammation (sideroachrestic
anaemia). 2. In colonic involvement the anaemia can be aggravated by iron
deficiency due to bleeding. 3. In rare cases part of the anaemia can be due to
iron absorption defects which need not necessarily be associated with macroscopic
recognizable mucosal damage.

PMID: 6734460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1701. An Esp Pediatr. 1984 Jun;20(9):869-75.

[Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemias in children].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández MJ, Javier G, Tusell J, Ortega JJ.

Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), besides distinctive cytological
characteristics has a high incidence of haemorrhagic complications due to
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Nine patients with APL, between a
day and 12 years old, were studied. Diagnosis was based on cytomorphological
classification FAB. Eight presented with haemorrhages and DIC were found. Five
received Daunorubicin and 4 DATOP. Patients with DIC also were given substitution
therapy with platelets and heparin.RESULTS: two died during the first two weeks, 
of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) and sepsis respectively. Three in initial
remission relapsed after 3 to 21 months and two died of ICH; the third one
attained a new remission but presented a new relapse and finally died 61 months
after onset. The other 4 patients are at present in their first remission of 1 to
12 months.
IN CONCLUSION: APL must receive, besides specific chemotherapy, early DIC
therapy; with present polychemotherapy a high remission rate and prolonged
disease-free survivals can be obtained.

PMID: 6592998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Int J Androl. 1984 Jun;7(3):236-43.

Stimulatory effect of an LHRH-agonist on testicular blood flow in
hypophysectomized rats.

Damber JE, Bergh A, Daehlin L.

The effect of an LHRH-agonist (A) on testicular blood flow and plasma
testosterone levels was studied in adult hypophysectomized rats. Subcutaneous
injection of 1 microgram LHRH-agonist 2 or 4 h prior to experiment induced an
increase in testicular blood flow. (CONTROLS: 21.1 +/- 2.8 ml/100 g X min; LHRH-A
+ 2 h: 28.9 +/- 3.3 ml/100 g X min; LHRH-A + 4 h: 32.4 +/- 4.1 ml/100 g X min P
less than 0.05; all mean +/- SEM). There was also a significant increase in
plasma testosterone levels at 2 h (P less than 0.01) and 4 h (P less than 0.01)
after treatment with the LHRH-agonist, with a peak at 2 h.

PMID: 6384066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1703. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jun;66(5):725-34.

Biomechanics of the knee-extension exercise. Effect of cutting the anterior
cruciate ligament.

Grood ES, Suntay WJ, Noyes FR, Butler DL.

We conducted this study to determine the effective moment arm of the knee
extensor mechanism and the conditions under which the anterior cruciate ligament 
is loaded during knee-extension exercises. The moment arm was calculated from
measurement of the quadriceps force required to extend the knee with and without 
resistive weights placed at the foot, the leg weight, and the location of its
center of gravity. Changes in three-dimensional joint motion after the anterior
cruciate ligament was removed were considered to be an indication that the
ligament was loaded. The quadriceps force rose during the initial phase of knee
extension and remained nearly constant at an average value of 177 newtons between
50 and 15 degrees. With extension past 15 degrees it rose rapidly, reaching an
average of 350 newtons at zero degrees of extension, and continued to increase
with hyperextension. The addition of thirty-one newtons (seven pounds) at the
foot approximately doubled the quadriceps force that was required to extend the
knee. The effective moment arm of the extensor mechanism increased with knee
extension, peaked at approximately 20 degrees, and rapidly decreased with further
extension. No change was found in the quadriceps force or its effective moment
arm when the anterior cruciate ligament was sectioned except in hyperextension,
where the quadriceps force decreased in two of five specimens. There was,
however, an increased anterior tibial displacement in the range of 30 degrees to 
full extension, suggesting that the anterior cruciate ligament is loaded in that 
flexion arc.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study demonstrates that very large
quadriceps forces are required to accomplish the last 15 degrees of extension
during leg-raising exercises, typically twice those required to reach 30 degrees 
of flexion. The large forces that are required to obtain full extension explain
why an extensor lag occurs with quadriceps weakness even though a full passive
range of motion is possible. Since thirty-one newtons (seven pounds) of resistive
weight added at the foot approximately doubles the quadriceps forces required to 
extend the leg alone, using such weights can produce very large quadriceps forces
and concurrent patellofemoral and tibiofemoral contact forces. Because the
quadriceps force increases little as the leg is extended from 50 to 15 degrees,
in patients with patellofemoral chondroses for whom a full range of joint motion 
is not desired, quadriceps exercises can be limited to the amount of extension
without decreasing quadriceps force.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6725319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1704. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Jun;58(6):591-605.

[A study on the fatty acid composition of the plasma lipoprotein in patients with
fractures].

[Article in Japanese]

Nara C.

Although the etiology of post-traumatic fat embolization still remains obscure,
various concepts as to the pathophysiology of the syndrome have emerged in recent
years. Extensive studies have indicated that trauma and surgical stress cause
remarkable alterations in lipid metabolism. In the following study designed to
characterize this situation more fully, the author has analyzed the changes of
fatty acid composition of triacylglycerol, phospholipid and cholesterol ester in 
the circulating plasma lipoprotein of the patient with fractures.MATERIALS AND
METHODS: Ten patients who sustained one or more fractures without chest injury
between age 9 and 79 years and seven healthy human subjects as control were
selected for study. Blood samples were withdrawn into EDTA-treated syringes from 
patients after overnight fast at intervals of 2, 3, 4, 5 and 14 days after
injury. Lipoprotein fractions (very low density lipoprotein: VLDL, low density
lipoprotein: LDL, high density lipoprotein: HDL, and very high density
lipoprotein: VHDL) were prepared by the method of ultracentrifugation. Lipids
were extracted from the lipoprotein fractions according to the procedure of
Folch. Lipids separation and purification were carried out by one-dimension
thin-layer chromatography. The purified lipids were methylated with BF3-methanol 
complex and the fatty acid composition of each lipid fraction was analyzed by
gas-liquid chromatography.
RESULTS: In the blood samples of normal subjects and patients, myristic,
palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acids (C14: 0, C16: 0, C16: 1,
C18: 0, C18: 1 and C18: 2) were the principal fatty acids and these fatty acids
were all altered after injury except C14: 0 and C18: 2. The distribution of fatty
acids in VLDL-TL was especially altered from the 3rd to 5th hospital day. Stearic
acid derived from VLDL-PL was decreased and C18: 1 derived from VLDL-TG was
increased. Of the ten patients there were greater changes in those with the
femoral fracture. In LDL-TL, the distribution of fatty acids was also altered,
and C18:1 derived from LDL-TG was increased. In fatty acid composition of HDL-TL,
C16: 0 derived from HDL-PL and C18: 1 derived from HDL-TG were increased and C18:
0 derived from HDL-PL was decreased. In fatty acid composition of VHDL-TL, C16: 1
derived from VHDL-TG was increased.

PMID: 6491425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. Tijdschr Kindergeneeskd. 1984 Jun;52(3):71-81.

[Treatment results in 951 newborn infants with IRDS (idiopathic respiratory
distress syndrome), especially in relation to artificial respiration from 1967
through 1981].

[Article in Dutch]

de Kleine MJ, Peters GJ, Deen L, Koppe JG.

Evaluation of intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) in newborn
children is presented by analysis of the data of all 951 children with hyaline
membrane disease (HMD) treated in the Wilhelmina Gasthuis during the years
1967-1981. Gestational age varied from 24 to 39 weeks. Birthweight varied from
600-4660 grams.RESULTS: Overall survival was 64.9%. The incidence of
pneumothorax, intracranial hemorrhage and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) was
11.5%, 18.2% and 11.3% respectively, related to the total number of patients. The
overall survival did not change. The mean gestational age decreased from 31.6 in 
the first 5 years to 30.7 in the last 5 years. The mean birthweight decreased
from 1873 to 1588 grams. The incidence of IPPV rose from 32.8 to 57.3%. For a
separated group artificially ventilated children with gestational ages of greater
than or equal to 28 weeks and less than or equal to 33 weeks and with birthweight
greater than or equal to 1000 grams and less than or equal to 2499 grams survival
increased from 36 to 50% and mean birthweight decreased from 1636 to 1489 grams. 
Introduction of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) did not change either 
incidence of IPPV or incidence of BPD. The most important determinants of a poor 
prognosis are low gestational age, low birthweight and necessity of IPPV. The
prognosis of the individual patient is improved. The continuously bad prognosis
for children with very low birthweight (less than 1000 grams) with HMD makes the 
search for other ventilation techniques worthwhile.

PMID: 6390781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1706. Z Kardiol. 1984 Jun;73(6):380-7.

[Behavior of physical endurance and metabolism during acute beta 1 and beta
1/2-blockade].

[Article in German]

Kindermann W, Scheerer W, Salas-Fraire O, Biro G, Wölfing A.

The effect of acute beta 1-blockade (100 mg metoprolol) and beta 1/2-blockade (2 
mg levobunolol) on exercise performance and metabolism was studied in 16 healthy 
male physical education students. The study was carried out in a randomized
double blind cross-over fashion. The maximal oxygen uptake was unchanged in all
conditions, but maximal exercise capacity was reduced by 4% (beta 1-blockade) and
5% (beta 1/2-blockade). Maximal lactate concentration was reduced by 10% (beta
1-blockade) and 20% (beta 1/2-blockade). In 50 min treadmill exercise with 68% of
maximal exercise capacity, beta 1/2-blockade led to premature exhaustion in 50%
of subjects. Moreover, blood levels of glucose decreased (in some subjects to
about 2.5 mmol X 1(-1], while the values were unchanged under beta 1-blockade.
Free fatty acids and glycerol were similarly reduced by both beta-blocking
agents. HGH, cortisol, adrenalin, and noradrenalin increased under beta-blockade,
but more under beta 1/2-blockade than under beta 1-blockade. Insulin remained
unchanged as compared with the unmedicated condition. The perceived exertion was 
elevated under both beta-blocking agents.CONCLUSION: Beta 1-blockade affects
exercise performance, especially endurance performance, less than beta
1/2-blockade due to unaffected beta 2-receptors mediating glycogenolysis in the
skeletal muscles.

PMID: 6147940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Endocrinology. 1984 May;114(5):1584-91.

The ontogeny of immunoreactive beta-endorphin in fetal, neonatal, and pubertal
testes from mouse and hamster.

Shaha C, Liotta AS, Krieger DT, Bardin CW.

Derivatives of proopiomelanocortin (POMC), physicochemically similar to
beta-endorphin and desacetyl alpha MSH, have been identified in adult testes,
where these peptides were localized to Leydig cells. In the present study, the
presence of immunostainable derivatives of POMC was established in fetal,
neonatal, and pubertal testes with the unlabeled antibody
peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Specificity of staining was established by
absorption of primary antisera with excess antigen. In the mouse, immunoreactive 
beta-endorphin was detectable in a few primitive interstitial cells on day 14 of 
gestation, the day after testicular differentiation. Thereafter, the number of
immunostainable cells progressively increased throughout fetal life, so that at
birth, they comprised 55% of the total interstitial cells. After birth, the
number of immunostaining cells declined, so that they were only 12% of
interstitial cells by 5 days of age. After 10 days of age, the number of
immunopositive cells progressively increased, and by 40 days, interstitial cells 
showed intense staining comparable to that in adult mice. At 10 days of age, when
the number of immunostainable cells was low, hCG treatment increased both the
number and staining intensity of beta-endorphin-positive cells to those seen in
adult testes. Antibodies directed against gamma MSH, a peptide within the
N-terminal segment of POMC, also produced specific staining of fetal and adult
interstitial cells in the mouse. In the hamster, the pattern of staining with
anti-beta-endorphin in fetal, neonatal, and pubertal interstitial cells was
similar to that observed in mice; the number and staining intensity of
immunostainable cells increased during fetal life, declined after birth, and rose
again at puberty.IN CONCLUSION: 1) the number and staining intensity of
immunostainable interstitial cells have two peaks in mouse and hamster, at birth 
and after puberty; 2) the number and staining intensity of mouse interstitial
cells can be increased by hCG; and 3) the development of immunostainable
beta-endorphin activity correlates with the previously reported spontaneous and
hCG-induced maturation of morphology and enzyme activities of Leydig cells.

PMID: 6325125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1708. J Androl. 1984 May-Jun;5(3):193-200.

Mechanism of action of gonadotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated Leydig cell
steroidogenesis. I. The stimulatory effect is calcium dependent and not mediated 
by cyclic nucleotides.

Lin T.

The present study was designed to elucidate mechanisms responsible for
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-stimulated testosterone formation. Purified
Leydig cells from adult Sprague-Dawley rats were incubated with varying
concentrations of GnRH agonist (des-Gly10, (D-Ala6) GnRH N-ethylamide), hCG,
8-bromo cAMP or pregnenolone; testosterone, cAMP, cyclic GMP (cGMP) and
cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity were measured after various time periods. 
Basal testosterone levels were 2.54 +/- 0.13 ng/10(5) cells, increasing to 3.18
+/- 0.14, 4.32 +/- 0.08, and 4.63 +/- 0.12 ng within 1 hour after the addition of
10(-9), 10(-8), and 10(-7) M GnRH agonist, respectively. After a 3-hour
incubation a 10(-7) M dose of GnRH agonist increased testosterone production
four-fold above control. GnRH agonist potentiated hCG-stimulated testosterone
formation, but had no significant effects on cGMP levels and cAMP-dependent
protein kinase activity. Cyclic AMP levels in the incubation medium increased
slightly. GnRH agonist also enhanced 8-bromo-cAMP and pregnenolone-induced
testosterone formation. Furthermore, GnRH agonist increased testosterone
formation both in the absence and presence of phosphodiesterase inhibitor. These 
results suggest that the major effect of GnRH agonist is probably beyond the cAMP
step. When purified Leydig cells were incubated in a calcium-free medium, the
stimulatory effects of GnRH agonist on testosterone formation were completely
abolished, but could be restored by the addition of calcium to the incubation
medium. GnRH agonist-induced testosterone formation was also blocked by the
addition of nifedipine (a calcium channel blocking agent, 0.1 to 10
micrograms/ml). Finally, GnRH antagonist in a concentration of 10 micrograms/ml
completely inhibited GnRH agonist-stimulated testosterone formation.IN
CONCLUSION: GnRH agonist stimulated Leydig cell testosterone formation in
short-term incubations. The stimulatory effect is calcium dependent and not
mediated by cyclic nucleotides.

PMID: 6378859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. J Surg Res. 1984 May;36(5):446-52.

Effects of portacaval shunt and portacaval transposition on hepatocellular and
hepatic reticuloendothelial cell activity in the dog.

Edgcomb LP, Eckhauser FE, Porter-Fink VL, Knol JA, Strodel WE.

Quantitative reduction of portal blood flow following a portacaval shunt (PCS)
adversely affects hepatocyte function, but does not alter HRES activity [L. P.
Edgcomb , J. A. Knol , and F. E. Eckhauser . J. Surg . Res. 33: 233, 1982]. To
determine whether similar changes occur after qualitative alteration of portal
blood flow, portacaval transpositions (PCT) were constructed in six conditioned
mongrel dogs. Estimated hepatic blood flow (EHBF) was determined
scintigraphically by the rate of hepatic uptake of a 500-microCi dose of 99mTc
-sulfur colloid (Tsc). Hepatic reticuloendothelial cell (RES) phagocytic (PI) and
degradative (DI) indices were calculated from the half-time blood disappearance
of 131I-labeled RES test lipid emulsion, and the half-time urine appearance of
free 131I, respectively. Opsonic activity (OI) was determined by gelatin latex
particle agglutination and normalized to control values. Hepatocellular function 
was assessed by serial determinations of albumin (Alb), and pyruvic and glutamic 
oxaloacetic transaminases (SGPT and SGOT). All studies were performed prior to
and at 3, 6, and 9 weeks following PCS or PCT.CONCLUSIONS: In the dog, neither
PCS nor PCT adversely affected HRES activity. Hepatocellular function and OI
remained unchanged following PCT but deteriorated significantly after PCS.
Observed changes in hepatocyte function and OI following PCS suggest that
hepatocellular integrity and serum opsonic activity may be interrelated.

PMID: 6727323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1984 May;20(5):663-8.

The pituitary-adrenocortical system is not involved in the sex difference in
passive avoidance.

Heinsbroek RP, van Oyen HG, van de Poll NE.

The hypothesis that sex differences in passive avoidance are related to the sex
difference in the pituitary-adrenocortical system was studied. A high dose of
dexamethasone (500 microg/kg body weight) was injected in male and female rats in
order to suppress the activity of the pituitary-adrenocortical system.
Dexamethasone treated animals and controls were tested for retention of passive
avoidance at one of 4 different intervals after punishment. The percentage of
females re-entering the compartment in which they were previously shocked was
significantly higher than the percentage of males, after a retention interval of 
60 minutes, but not after an interval of 0 minutes or 15 minutes (Experiment 1). 
Dexamethasone did not affect this pattern of sex differences. The same sex
difference was found after an interval of 24 hours (Experiment 2), and again
dexamethasone had no effect on it. However, in males a state-dependent effect of 
dexamethasone treatment was found in Experiment 2 when animals were given two
injections of either dexamethasone or saline, one before the learning trial and
one before the retention trial. Within the groups of males given two different
injections (Dex-Sal and Sal-Dex) a higher percentage re-entered the shock
compartment, when compared with the groups of males given the same injection
twice (Sal-Sal and Dex-Dex).CONCLUSIONS: (1) A sex difference in passive
avoidance apparently occurs after a certain interval during which the animals are
not disturbed. (2) This sex difference does not depend on the integrity of the
pituitary-adrenocortical system. (3) State-dependency was observed in males only,
indicating that changes in the pituitary-adrenocortical system, as a consequence 
of dexamethasone treatment, may have a more important stimulus value in males.

PMID: 6330760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1984 May 1;39(9):177-81.

[Vagus block in the therapy of bradycardial arrhythmias--the role of autonomic
balance].

[Article in German]

Weber H, Blczoch J, Steinbach K, Joskowicz G, Glogar D, Knofloch P.

A medicamentous therapy of bradycardiac disturbances of heart rhythm can be
performed on the one hand by stimulation of the sympathetic nerve, on the other
hand by blockade of the parasympathetic system. An ester of the tropic acid,
Ipratropiumbromide (IP), shall be used for answering the question to what extent 
the heart rate may be increased in such arrhythmias. In 10 patients (4 females
and 6 males, m 60 +/- 9 years old) with asymptomatic bradycardiac arrhythmias
(heart rate less than 60 per min in the routine ECG; 3 patients AV-block III, 1
patient AV-block II II, 6 patients sinus bradycardia) at first a 24-hour
long-term ECG was recorded under ambulatory conditions, after this 1 mg IP was
administered intravenously under continuous long-term ECG. After 4 days 10 mg IP 
orally thrice a day, in 3 patients also after 15 mg IP t.i.d. a repeated
long-term ECG was performed. These were evaluated using the computer-assisted
"multipass scanning" system.RESULTS: 1 hour after 1 mg IP intravenously the m
heart rate significantly increased about 17-87% (m 55%) in all patients (p less
than 0.001). Proportionally to the increase of the heart rate it lasted 7-14 hrs.
till the initial heart rate was reached again. 1-4 hours after intravenous
injection in 2 patients sinus tachycardias developed as an expression of an
increased sympathicotonia. 10 mg IP led to an increase of the heart rate of m 8% 
of the patients, during the day m 9%, during the night 4%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 6234713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1712. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1984 Apr;55(4):302-7.

Comparative analysis: effects of positive and negative lateral acceleration on
isometric fatigue in the forearm.

Johnson RA.

The purpose of this investigation was to determine the difference, if any,
produced by +/- Gy acceleration on forearm fatigue. The Dynamic Environment
Simulator (DES) at the USAF Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory was used to
create a lateral acceleration environment. The experiment was designed to measure
the forearm strength, endurance, recovery from fatigue, and surface electrical
activity of six subjects during +/- 2 Gy acceleration.THE RESULTS: isometric
performance was degraded during -2 Gy acceleration compared to + 2 Gy
acceleration. The percentage drop in center frequency of the EMG signal was
determined to be unreliable as a fatigue index during lateral acceleration. When 
head and shoulder restraints were used during lateral maneuvers, they were a
factor in pilot performance, with + 2 Gy being superior to -2 Gy. This study
suggested a way of analyzing the EMG signals that may permit quantification of
isometric fatigue during lateral acceleration.

PMID: 6732682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Apr;66(4):602-7.

Effects of chemotherapeutic agents on bone. I. Short-term methotrexate and
doxorubicin (adriamycin) treatment in a rat model.

Friedlaender GE, Tross RB, Doganis AC, Kirkwood JM, Baron R.

Wistar-Lewis rats received therapeutic doses of doxorubicin or methotrexate daily
for five days, were pulse-labeled with a fluorescent compound (calcein) on the
seventh and thirteenth days, and were killed fourteen days after initiation of
the protocol. Proximal tail vertebrae were then evaluated histomorphometrically, 
and the effects of the chemotherapeutic agents on trabecular bone were
quantitated with respect to changes in total bone mass, new-bone formation, and
resorption. Short-term administration of methotrexate caused a 26.9 per cent
reduction in net trabecular bone volume and doxorubicin, an 11.5 per cent
decrease. Both drugs significantly and profoundly diminished bone-formation rates
by nearly 60 per cent. The toxic effect on osteoblasts was also reflected in
reduced volume and thickness of osteoid, but the total numbers of osteoblasts and
the per cent of trabecular surface covered by bone-forming cells were not
affected. The numbers of osteoclasts and the extent of their activity were not
clearly different from those in untreated rats, but rates of resorption were not 
determined. The effects of chronic treatment with these chemotherapeutic agents
on intact, fractured, and transplanted bone and the biomechanical significance of
these changes has not yet been evaluated.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Chemotherapeutic
agents have an adverse effect on normal physiological bone turnover, especially
osteoblastic activity, and would also be expected to alter fracture-healing and
bone-allograft incorporation by these same mechanisms. Knowledge of these changes
and efforts to favorably affect the remodeling cycle must address these specific 
defects before bone allografts can be reliably used and fracture-healing can be
improved concomitant with chemotherapy.

PMID: 6707039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1714. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Apr;66(4):568-74.

The pharyngovertebral veins: an anatomical rationale for Grisel's syndrome.

Parke WW, Rothman RH, Brown MD.

Non-traumatic subluxation of the atlanto-axial joint following peripharyngeal
inflammation (Grisel's syndrome) has been attributed to laxity of the transverse 
ligament caused by hyperemia, but a satisfactory anatomical rationale for the
association of these conditions has been lacking. Injection of the cervical
epidural sinuses of a series of human perinatal cadavera showed retrograde
filling of a previously undescribed system of veins with frequent lymphovenous
anastomoses. This system appears to drain the posterosuperior pharyngeal
region.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Because of their direct connection with the
periodontoidal venous plexus and the suboccipital epidural sinuses, the
pharyngovertebral veins may provide a hematogenous route for the transport of
peripharyngeal septic exudates and neoplastic cells to the upper cervical spinal 
structures and provide an anatomical explanation for the atlanto-axial hyperemia 
of Grisel's syndrome.

PMID: 6707036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. J Surg Res. 1984 Apr;36(4):384-8.

The role of glucose in preventing stress gastric mucosal injury.

Shorr LD, Sirinek KR, Page CP, Levine BA.

Reports from other investigators have shown the ability of pretreatment with
either parenteral (glucose) or enteral (bolus Vivonex HN) nutrition to protect
against stress ulcer formation, suggesting that the mechanism of protection may
be substrate availability. However, these prior animal studies have used
inordinately high amounts of Vivonex HN (equal to 1050 ml/hr in a human). This
study compared cytoprotection afforded by pretreatment with a continuous infusion
of Vivonex HN at a more clinically applicable level to that of both parenteral
(ip) and enteral (po) glucose to test the above hypothesis. One hundred eight
rats were infused (0.1 ml/min) for 30 min with: po water, ip water, po 25%
glucose, ip 25% glucose, or po Vivonex HN. This was followed by 2 hr of
cold-restraint stress. Serum glucose was determined. Poststress, animals were
sacrificed, stomachs inspected, and mean ulcer index was calculated. Only oral
25% glucose offered significant gastric cytoprotection. Serum glucose was highest
in both glucose groups.CONCLUSIONS: (1) Vivonex HN pretreatment failed to
cytoprotect in this model, (2) gastric cytoprotection by oral but not by
parenteral glucose in the presence of similar serum glucose levels suggests that 
luminal factors, in addition to substrate availability, are necessary for this
protection to occur.

PMID: 6546772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Apr;58(4):405-17.

[A study on torsion of the lower leg in osteoarthritis of the knee. Measurement
of leg torsion by computerized tomography].

[Article in Japanese]

Yagi T.

Lower leg torsion was measured by computerized tomography (CT-scan) in the knees 
with osteoarthritis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Experimental studies; Using the
Toshiba CT/TCT-60A, the degree of torsion in five dried tibias were measured in
three positions of varus, 0 degrees, 10 degrees and 20 degrees; and in two
positions of flexion 0 degrees and 20 degrees. Clinical studies; The degree of
tibial torsion was measured by CT-scan in 68 adult patients (85 knees) and
compared with the torsion in 13 controls (24 tibias). The correlation between
tibial torsion and osteoporosity was investigated by measuring CT-density of the 
third lumbar vertebra.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference was found among the results of
measurement obtained in five dried tibias placed in three positions of varus and 
in two positions of flexion. These results indicate that measurement of torsion
using CT-scan is not influenced by the position when varus and flexion deformity 
are less than 20 degrees. Osteoarthritic knees were divided into five
radiographic stages. There were significant differences between the lateral
tibial torsions for each stage. The lateral tibial torsion was 23.5 degrees in
normal adults, 14.1 degrees in stage II, 11.9 degrees in stage III, 7.5 degrees
in stage IV and V, for an average of 11.3 degrees. The rate of decrease in
lateral tibial torsion was 59.6% in the proximal tibia, 4.2% in the tibial shaft 
and 36.2% in the distal tibia. The decreases of lateral tibial torsion were
correlated with decrease of CT-density of the third lumbar vertebra.
CONCLUSION: It is apparent from this study that there is a correlation between
decreasing lateral tibial torsion with the radiographic stage of osteoarthritis
of the knee and general osteoporosity.

PMID: 6470545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. No To Shinkei. 1984 Apr;36(4):339-48.

[Evaluation of cord functions in patients with cervical radiculomyelopathy using 
cortical and spinal somatosensory evoked potentials].

[Article in Japanese]

Kubota S, Masuda T, Ohmori S, Nagashima C.

It is desirable for neurosurgeons to be able to evaluate cord functions. To
assess electrophysiologically functional status of spinal cord, cortical and
spinal somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) were studied in 33 patients with
cervical radiculomyelopathy; 11 cases of cervical spondylosis, 11 cases of OPLL, 
3 cases of narrow canal, 2 cases of narrow canal with OPLL, 3 cases of intradural
extramedullary tumor, 2 cases of intramedullary tumor and one case of traumatic
cervical cord injury. Before the operation cortical SEP was recorded from
post-Rolandic area by the median nerve stimulation. Spinal SEP was recorded from 
the dorsal surface of the cord after partial and complete laminectomy, or before 
and after tumor removal.RESULTS: Cortical SEP showed abnormalities in 45% of the 
cases, whose abnormalities were disappearance of the early components such as
P1N1 wave, P1 to P2 complex or P1 to P3 complex and delay of the peak latency.
Spinal SEP showed abnormalities in 42% of the cases, and the abnormal patterns
were divided into 3 groups as follows: Type 1: Slightly abnormal, P1 and N1 waves
are well recorded, whereas the P2 wave is absent or markedly suppressed in the
amplitude. Type 2: Moderately abnormal, the P2 wave is flat and in addition the
N1 wave is diminished in the amplitude. Type 3: Severely abnormal, only the P1
wave is recorded and the N1 to P2 complex is absent. Type 1 was obtained from 3
patients, type 2 from 9 patients, and type 3 from 2 patients. Cortical and spinal
SEP were closely related to deep sensations, and cortical SEP was relatively
correlated with superficial sensations. There were no differences of spinal SEP
in most of the cases between partial and complete laminectomy. In intradural
extramedullary tumor, however, good spinal SEP was recorded in collapsed cord
after the tumor removal. Clinical symptoms were improved postoperatively in 80%
of patients with both normal cortical and spinal SEP. It is concluded that
cortical and spinal SEP are useful for prognostic value in patients with cervical
radiculomyelopathy.

PMID: 6743405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1984 Apr;32(2):96-9.

Hematological effects of a new hollow fiber membrane oxygenator: a clinical
study.

Ennema JJ, Karliczek GF, Gerding A, Tigchelaar I, Dijck L, Harder MP, van der
Heide JN, Wildevuur CR.

The hemocompatibility of a new hollow fiber membrane oxygenator, BOS- CM40 , was 
evaluated during and after cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary artery bypass
graft operations in 10 patients. Blood cells were well preserved by this
oxygenator. In particular, platelet numbers at the end of bypass were
significantly higher than at the start of bypass and platelet function remained
completely intact during bypass. After protamine hydrochloride administration,
platelet function decreased slightly but platelet numbers remained unaltered.
After release of the aortic cross-clamp the beta-thromboglobulin concentration
sharply increased, which shows the damaging effect of cardiotomy suction.
Nevertheless, platelet numbers and function did not decrease significantly during
this period. Apparently, platelet number and function can remain unaffected by
this damaging procedure, provided they are normal before the start of suction.
The average postoperative blood loss was 551 ml, which appears to be less than
the blood loss in a previous study in which a membrane oxygenator of the envelope
type was used. (J. Thorac . Cardiovasc . Surg . 83 (1983) 108-116).IN CONCLUSION:
The BOS- CM40 hollow fiber membrane oxygenator proved to be highly hemocompatible
.

PMID: 6204417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1984 Mar-Apr;12(2):105-9.

[The evaluation of cellular immunity in the aged by skin tests].

[Article in Spanish]

Croce J, de Carvalho Filho ET, Pasini U, Do Serro Azul LC.

Cellular immunity of persons over 60 years of age was evaluated by intradermal
testing with ubiquitous antigens, such as PPD, Trichophytin, Candidine and
Varidase (SK, SD-40-10 U/ml) and by skin sensitization with DNCB. The group
consisted of 290 individuals, 95 men and 195 women, without any signs of disease 
other than the usual geriatric disturbances, such as osteoporosis, ostearthritis 
and mild systolic hypertension. No medication was used that could interfere with 
the results of the tests. The patients were divided into 2 groups, group I, 190
cases between 60 and 75 years of age, and group II, 100 cases over 75.RESULTS:
Intradermal tests with all ubiquitous antigens were negative in 7,4% of group I
and 13% of group II, while in a control of younger adults each had at least had 2
positive tests. This difference was mainly due to a lower sensitivity to PPD in
the elder persons. 16% of group I and 23% of group II did not sensitize with
DNCB. All skin tests, intradermal and DNCB, were negative in 1,1% of group I and 
4% of group II. Our results suggest a decreasing immunological activity according
age which could explain the higher incidence of infections, neoplasms and
autoimmune diseases in old people. Also periodical repetition of the test in
elderly people could evaluate immunological competence and, consequently,
susceptibility to these diseases. Patients with negative tests or only one
positive test, should be carefully investigated in order to exclude the existence
of pathology. Our results and considerations also suggest the possibility that,
by increasing immunological reactivity, the occurrence of certain diseases could 
the prevented.

PMID: 6331762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1720. Am J Med. 1984 Mar;76(3):361-6.

Controlled trial of medical therapy for active upper gastrointestinal bleeding
and prevention of rebleeding.

Zuckerman G, Welch R, Douglas A, Troxell R, Cohen S, Lorber S, Melnyk C, Bliss C,
Christiansen P, Kern F.

This multicentered, placebo-controlled trial evaluated the efficacy of medical
therapy to stop bleeding in 285 patients with active upper gastrointestinal
bleeding (bleeding phase) and 194 patients who had ceased gastrointestinal
bleeding and in whom therapy was instituted to prevent rebleeding during the same
hospitalization (prevention phase). Patients in the bleeding phase were given
cimetidine (300 mg every six hours) or intravenous placebo. There was no
significant overall difference between intravenous cimetidine (71 percent) and
placebo (77 percent) in stopping acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. There was
also no significant difference noted between intravenous cimetidine and placebo
when specific bleeding lesions were evaluated. Once gastrointestinal bleeding had
stopped, recurrence of bleeding while receiving prevention therapy (cimetidine
tablets 300 mg one three times a day and at bedtime, or Mylanta II liquid 30 ml
every hour, or cimetidine plus hourly antacids, or placebo) was evaluated in 194 
of the patients in the bleeding phase. Twenty-four percent (12 of 51 patients)
rebled while receiving cimetidine, 13 percent (five of 39 patients) rebled while 
receiving hourly antacids, 11 percent (six of 54 patients) rebled while receiving
cimetidine plus hourly antacids, and 26 percent (13 of 50 patients) rebled while 
receiving placebo. None of these prevention regimens reached statistical
significance (p = 0.13). Evaluation of specific bleeding lesions within this
group also failed to show any significant value of prevention therapy.IN
CONCLUSION: (1) intravenous cimetidine offers no advantage over placebo in
stopping active upper gastrointestinal bleeding; (2) the occurrence of rebleeding
during the same hospitalization does not appear to be significantly affected by
any of the medical regimens used for prevention. These findings would suggest
that the cessation of active bleeding and the prevention of recurrent upper
gastrointestinal bleeding during a single hospitalization appear to be unaffected
by therapy directed at acid neutralization or reduction.

PMID: 6367452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. Am J Physiol. 1984 Mar;246(3 Pt 1):C216-23.

Activity of circular muscle of rat uterus at different times in pregnancy.

Bengtsson B, Chow EM, Marshall JM.

During pregnancy, circular muscle activity changes from weak irregular
contractions at midterm to strong regular contractions at term. The present study
was designed to determine if this change is related to contractile ability or to 
membrane electrical events. Myometrial segments were taken from rats on days
16-17, 18-19, 20, and 21 (term) of gestation. Contractile ability was estimated
as the maximum force elicited by 121 mM KCl or 0.6 mM acetylcholine. The K- and
acetylcholine-induced contractions were significantly greater than spontaneous
and no different at midterm and term. Electrical activity was measured with
intracellular electrodes. Between days 16 and 21, action potentials evolved from 
single, plateau-type to repetitive spike trains. Plateau potentials were
associated with small contractions and repetitive spikes with larger
contractions. On day 21, there was a transient increase in membrane potential and
cessation of spontaneous activity. Before delivery, the membrane potential
declined and spontaneous spike trains appeared and triggered large
contractions.CONCLUSION: the change in circular muscle activity during pregnancy 
is related to electrical events and not to contractile ability.

PMID: 6703037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1722. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1984 Mar;77(3):235-44.

[Some comments apropos of 120 cases of transluminal coronary angioplasty].

[Article in French]

Cherrier F, Cuillère M, Monassier JP, Aliot E, Villemot JP.

Between April 1980 and November 1982, 120 patients underwent transluminal
coronary angioplasty (TCA) by Gruntzig's technique (128 attempts on 132 vessels).
Immediate results were evaluated by: the transstenotic pressure gradient
(disappearance of a systolic gradient, mean residual gradient less than 15 mmHg);
angiographic improvement (at least 25 p. 100) with less than 50 p. 100 residual
stenosis. Success was confirmed by symptomatic and electrocardiographic
improvement, the comparison of radio-isotopic studies (Thallium myocardial
scintigraphy or tomography; global and regional left ventricular contractility by
Technetium radioangiography) at rest and if possible during exercise before TCA
and 2 and 6 months after TCA. The incidence of primary success was 72 p. 100
(stable angina: 67,2 p. 100, unstable angina 79,4 p. 100 NS); recurrence was
observed in 16/69 of controlled patients (23,1 p. 100); 7 secondary TCA were
performed with 5 successful results, leaving 16 p. 100 "permanent" recurrences in
this series. There were 2 deaths (1 electromechanical dissociation, 1 rupture of 
the balloon with dissection due to dysfunction of a new manometer), 5 rudimentary
infarcts (transient Q waves and/or slight enzymatic elevation), 6 infarcts (5
anterior, 1 posterior), 4 acute coronary insufficiencies (total regression after 
surgery). There were 11 immediate (9 as an emergency) and 9 secondary
aorto-coronary bypass operations. There were 2 femoral artery repair
procedures.IN CONCLUSION: certain technical procedures are relatively easy;
successive utilisation of a 2 then a 3,7 mm balloon in severe or excentric
stenoses for instance. Nine stenoses became occluded without infarction between
coronary angiography and the TCA procedures: 2 were recanalised by the guide wire
(and then dilated). Therefore, in very severe stenoses TCA should be performed
rapidly, even straight away. TCA is associated with some risk to the patient:
experienced operators and immediate surgical cover are essential. Initial
evaluation of results should be careful: measurement of the pressure gradient is 
often erroneous (damping of pressure wave, transmission of ventricular pressure);
automatic measurements show an overestimation of the degree of stenosis of more
than 60 p. 100. Stress radioisotopic studies seem to be the most satisfactory way
of assessing the outcome. Medium term results are encouraging: the majority of
patients return to work, but this took too long. The ideal theoretical indication
remains rare.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6231899  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. G Ital Cardiol. 1984 Mar;14(3):199-205.

[Abnormal intracavitary dynamic echoes. II. In vivo study].

[Article in Italian]

Iliceto S, Sorino M, Antonelli G, Biasco G, Rizzon P.

Dynamic intracavitary echoes (DIE's) suggesting regional stasis of blood, were
detected in 17 patients (pts) (6 with mitral stenosis, 1 with mitral prosthesis, 
5 with congestive cardiomyopathy, 5 with left ventricular aneurysm). DIE's were
observed in the left atrium in all pts with mitral stenosis and in the patient
with a prosthetic valve, in the left ventricle in the remaining pts. In 5 pts a
thrombus was detected in the cardiac chamber in which DIE's were observed. In 4
pts direct inspection (at surgery or autopsy) of the cardiac chamber in which
DIE's were detected revealed the presence of non-coagulated blood. All pts with
DIE's in the left atrium were in atrial fibrillation. In one case with mitral
stenosis DIE's disappeared after commissurotomy.IN CONCLUSION: DIE's suggesting
regional stasis of blood may be detected in pts with clinical conditions
characterized by slow cardiac flow; this phenomenon may be caused by red cell
aggregation occurring in those conditions.

PMID: 6735011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 1984 Mar;8(3):260-3.

[Cholesterol crystals, cholesterol saturation of bile and biliary lithiasis].

[Article in French]

Poupon R, Chrétien Y, Darnis F.

It has been repeatedly shown that normal human gallbladder bile is commonly
supersaturated wih cholesterol. It has been therefore suggested that the crucial 
step of the formation of cholesterol gallstones might be the nucleation and
growth of cholesterol monohydrate crystals. Consequently this work was aimed at
determining: 1) if cholesterol crystal formation is really a typical feature of
gallbladder bile with cholesterol gallstones; 2) the influence of the degree of
cholesterol saturation of bile on the formation of cholesterol crystals.
Gallbladder bile from 89 patients (23 from patients with cholesterol gallstones, 
7 from patients with non-cholesterol gallstones and 59 from patients free of
gallstones) and hepatic bile from 17 previously cholecystectomized patients were 
studied. Four of these patients had cholesterol stones of the common bile
duct.RESULTS: (a) gallbladder bile: cholesterol crystals were present on
immediate examination in 19 of the 23 bile samples with cholesterol stones, in 2 
of the 7 bile samples with non-cholesterol stones and in 1 of the 59 bile samples
without stones. Only 1 bile sample with cholesterol stone developed crystals.
Cholesterol saturation of bile with or without crystals did not differ
significantly; (b) hepatic bile: cholesterol crystals were detected on immediate 
examination in one of the 17 bile samples and subsequently appeared in one of the
remaining samples. Cholesterol saturation of hepatic bile (2.10 +/- 0.43) was
significantly higher (p less than 0.01) than that of gallbladder bile containing 
cholesterol stones (1.32 +/- 0.43).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6714561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Mar;66(3):397-402.

Regulation of bone formation by applied dynamic loads.

Rubin CT, Lanyon LE.

In studies on a functionally isolated avian-bone preparation to which external
loads could be applied in vivo, we determined the following information. Removal 
of load-bearing resulted in substantial remodeling endosteally, intracortically, 
and, to a lesser extent, periosteally. Since the balance of this remodeling was
negative, bone mass declined. It therefore appears that functional load-bearing
prevents a remodeling process that would otherwise lead to disuse osteoporosis.
Four consecutive cycles a day of an externally applied loading regimen that
engendered physiological strain magnitudes but an altered strain distribution
prevented remodeling and was thus associated with no change in bone mass. A small
exposure to, or the first effect of, a suitable dynamic strain regimen appears to
be sufficient to prevent the negatively balanced remodeling that is responsible
for disuse osteoporosis. Thirty-six 0.5-hertz cycles per day of the same load
regimen also prevented intracortical resorption but was associated with
substantial periosteal and endosteal new-bone formation. Over a six-week period, 
bone-mineral content increased to between 133 and 143 per cent of the original
value. Physiological levels of strain imposed with an abnormal strain
distribution can produce an osteogenic stimulus that is capable of increasing
bone mass. Neither the size nor the character of the bone changes that we
observed were affected by any additional increase in the number of load cycles
from thirty-six to 1800.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this experiment must
be considered in relation to the type and duration of the non-physiological loads
that were imposed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6699056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1726. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Mar;66(3):385-96.

Intrinsic flexor-tendon repair. A morphological study in vitro.

Manske PR, Gelberman RH, Vande Berg JS, Lesker PA.

Rabbit flexor tendons with a 90 per cent mid-section transverse laceration
demonstrated the intrinsic capacity to participate in the repair process in the
absence of extrinsic cell sources and without the benefit of nutrition from a
circulating blood supply or the influence of synovial fluid. Two cellular
processes were involved in the in vitro repair process: (1) phagocytosis occurred
by differentiation of fibroblasts from the epitenon--the cells migrated into the 
repair site and removed cellular debris and collagen fragments, and (2) collagen 
synthesis occurred primarily within the endotenon cells.CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE:
The results of this experimental study support the concept that flexor tendons
have the intrinsic capacity to phagocytize old collagen and synthesize new
collagen fibrils. Consequently, clinical attempts to prevent or control the
peripheral adhesions appear valid, since these adhesions do not appear to be an
essential component of the repair process.

PMID: 6699055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. J Nurs Educ. 1984 Mar;23(3):105-8.

The effects of an undergraduate clinical internship on the self-concept and
professional role mastery of baccalaureate nursing students.

Olson RK, Gresley RS, Heater BS.

PURPOSE: The Purpose of this investigation was to determine whether an eight-week
undergraduate clinical courses would enhance students' self-concepts and increase
their perception of competence in critical care, teaching/collaboration,
planning/evaluation, professional development, leadership and interpersonal
skills, and communication.
RESEARCH QUESTIONS: Is there a need for an undergraduate clinical internship?
Will there be a difference in self-concept and perception of role mastery between
the group of students who participated in the internship and those who did not
participate?
METHODOLOGY: Nursing students at the University who were between their junior and
senior years were offered the opportunity to enroll in the course (didactic and
clinical). Eight interns enrolled in the course; five non-interns enrolled in the
didactic portion only; and the remaining 36 classmates were designated as the
control group.
DESIGN: A pretest-post test designed was utilized. Two instruments were used: 1) 
The Tennessee Self-Concept Scale and 2) The Six-Dimensional Scale of Nursing
Performance.
RESULTS: One way ANOVA with .05 level of significance was used as the statistical
test. There were no significant differences noted.

PMID: 6325611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Clin Nucl Med. 1984 Feb;9(2):61-6.

The pericardial effusion pattern on phase images.

Pavel CM, Kahn J, Rich S, Gonzalez P, Turner S, Pavel DG.

The effect of pericardial effusion on phase images of gated studies was
investigated. Twenty-six patients with suspected or known pericardial effusion
were correlated with echocardiography and/or clinical and other laboratory data
to ascertain the presence and size of effusion. The phase image pattern and
parameters were compared to the results previously obtained in seven normal
patients, and in 26 patients with documented regional wall motion abnormalities
but no evidence of pericardial effusion. The phase pattern was graded into five
categories: typical (IV) (wide histogram, well defined concentric convex pattern,
progressive delay toward the inferolateral area, identifiable also over the right
ventricle); less pronounced (III); atypical (II); ill defined changes (I); and
normal (0).RESULTS: Group L (large pericardial effusion): four of six had pattern
(IV) and the left ventricular histogram showed abnormal parameters. These
patients had large free effusions in the pericardial sac and none had regional
wall motion abnormalities. Two of six had pattern (III) and (II) but also had
ancillary pericardial pathology and/or decreased ejection fraction. Group M
(moderate pericardial effusion), S (small pericardial effusion), and A (absent
pericardial effusion, but not normal) had variable phase images and numeric
parameters. After therapeutic drainage of pericardial fluid two patients changed 
pattern from IV and III to 0 and a third from III to I. Category IV pattern is
100% specific for pericardial effusion; the combination of category IV or III is 
87.5% specific and 61% sensitive for large and moderate pericardial
effusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6713757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Feb;66(2):280-6.

The influence of prosthetic stem stiffness and of a calcar collar on stresses in 
the proximal end of the femur with a cemented femoral component.

Lewis JL, Askew MJ, Wixson RL, Kramer GM, Tarr RR.

We used three-dimensional finite-element models of the proximal end of the femur 
to examine the influence of stem material, stem geometry, and the use of a calcar
collar on the stresses in and around implanted total hip-replacement femoral
components. Anatomical bone geometries and realistic prosthetic geometries were
considered. A slender titanium-alloy stem with a collar allows creation of calcar
stresses of approximately 80 per cent of the anticipated normal levels. A similar
stem of cobalt-chromium alloy creates calcar stresses of 67 per cent of these
normal values. Stem designs without a collar were shown to generate no more than 
40 per cent of normal values while larger, stiffer stems were seen to create less
than 30 per cent of normal values, with or without a collar. Proximal cement
stresses were increased by the use of titanium-alloy stems, but were reduced to
low levels by a functioning collar. The highest cement stresses in the system
were found near the tip of the stem, where titanium-alloy stems create lower
stresses than do corresponding cobalt-chromium-alloy stems. The achievability of 
calcar loading with a titanium prosthesis was demonstrated in in vitro
strain-gauge tests.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Loosening of the femoral stem and calcar
resorption are problems that are seen in many long-term clinical series of total 
hip prostheses. In order to reduce the incidence of these problems, the goal of
the designer of a prosthesis is to reduce cement and cement interface stresses
around the femoral stem and to create stress distributions in the bone that will 
prevent resorption.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6693456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1730. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Feb;66(2):274-9.

The healing of segmental bone defects induced by demineralized bone matrix. A
radiographic and biomechanical study.

Einhorn TA, Lane JM, Burstein AH, Kopman CR, Vigorita VJ.

We studied the effect of demineralized bone matrix on the repair of large femoral
diaphyseal defects in a rat model by clinical, radiographic, and biomechanical
methods. A standard procedure was first developed to create segmental defects
that did not heal and in which non-union developed consistently. The effect of
demineralized bone matrix on repair was then assessed by physical examination,
serial radiographs, and biomechanical studies to determine deformation to
failure, stiffness, torsional strength, and energy absorption. By twelve weeks,
the defects that had been treated with demineralized bone matrix showed
satisfactory repair and remodeling in most animals based on clinical and
radiographic evaluation. The biomechanical studies demonstrated that the bone
induced by demineralized bone matrix had an energy-absorption capacity and
stiffness equal to those of intact rat femoral bone. The bone induced by
demineralized bone matrix achieved 35 per cent of the torsional strength of
normal bone and an increased capacity to deform under load. These biomechanical
properties are similar to those observed in the early stages of normal fracture
repair.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: An effective, readily available alternative to
autologous bone-graft material would have a variety of clinical uses in
orthopaedic surgery, such as augmenting fusions, aiding in the repair of
high-risk fractures, and filling or bridging bone defects. Demineralized bone
matrix may provide an important tool for these purposes by inducing bone that has
the mechanical properties of fracture callus. This would reduce the morbidity
associated with harvesting autologous bone and have an advantage over allografts 
or synthetic biomaterials that require incorporation by the host before they can 
support mechanical loads.

PMID: 6693455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1731. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Feb;66(2):253-9.

Studies on cryopreservation of articular cartilage chondrocytes.

Tomford WW, Fredericks GR, Mankin HJ.

We used cartilage cells isolated from bovine articular cartilage in experiments
to: (1) determine the toxicity of cryopreservatives (glycerol and dimethyl
sulphoxide) on chondrocytes, (2) evaluate methods of freezing chondrocytes to
maximize viability after freezing, and (3) examine the biosynthetic activity of
frozen and thawed chondrocytes in culture. Results showed that the toxicity of
cryopreservatives to chondrocytes is dependent on the time and temperature of
exposure as well as on the concentration of the cryopreservative. Maximum
viability was obtained by a two-stage freezing procedure using a slow cooling
period initially, with equilibration of the cells at -40 degrees Celsius before
further rapid freezing to -80 degrees Celsius. After seventy-two hours in
culture, chondrocytes that had been frozen using this protocol synthesized
products that appeared by column chromatography to form proteoglycan
aggregates.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: One of the reasons for failure of frozen
osteochondral allografts is the deterioration of joint function after
transplantation due to degeneration of the articular cartilage. An important
factor in the survival of these cartilage grafts may be preservation of the
viability of the chondrocytes during storage and maintenance of the cell's
ability to function following storage. In this study we evaluated the ability to 
store chondrocytes in a frozen state with the aid of cryopreservatives. The
results confirmed that chondrocytes will survive freezing and remain capable of
functioning in the same manner as fresh chondrocytes. This suggests that
chondrocytes in articular cartilage should be able to survive freezing. The
pursuit of methods of preserving articular cartilage by freezing appears to be
warranted.

PMID: 6693452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. Neuroendocrinology. 1984 Feb;38(2):152-7.

Effects of 17 beta-estradiol on LH-RH release from rat mediobasal hypothalamic
slices.

Drouva SV, Laplante E, Gautron JP, Kordon C.

Mediobasal hypothalamic slices of adult ovariectomized (OVX) rats treated or not 
with 17 beta-estradiol (E2) were superfused in buffered (pH 7.2) Locke medium
containing bacitracin. A 6-min pulse of K+ (56 m M) was less effective in
releasing luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LH-RH) from mediobasal
hypothalamic slices sampled from OVX rats than from OVX animals treated
subcutaneously with either E2 or stilbestrol implants for 5 days; in contrast,
the basal release of the neuropeptide was identical in both cases. Direct
addition to the superfusion medium of 17 beta-estradiol (10(-10) to 10(-7) M) or 
stilbestrol (10(-8) M) potentiated the K+-induced LH-RH release from slices of
OVX animals. The K+-induced LH-RH release observed after in vivo E2 implantation 
was not further amplified by in vitro addition of the hormone. Tamoxifen and
hydroxytamoxifen, estrogen antagonists, were ineffective by themselves, but
reversed the E2 facilitation of K+-evoked LH-RH release. In contrast, 17
alpha-estradiol, progesterone, or cholesterol (10(-8) or 10(-9) M) hat no effect 
on either basal or stimulated release of the neurohormone. Somatostatin release
measured under identical conditions was not affected by castration or by in vitro
addition of the steroid.IN CONCLUSION: (1) estradiol appears selectively and
specifically involved in the process coupling, nerve endings depolarization, and 
LH-RH release, and (2) the effect is receptor-mediated and does not appear to
require nuclear translocation of the steroid or transcription processes, since it
can be readily elicited upon addition of the hormone to nerve endings
disconnected from their cell bodies.

PMID: 6371570  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1733. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1984 Feb;58(2):219-30.

[Pathogenetic significance of adenosine deaminase in autoimmune diseases].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki S.

Adenosine deaminase (ADA: E.C.3.5.4.4.) is one of the catabolic enzymes of purine
nucleotide. In 1972 Gibllet has discovered two cases of ADA deficiency combined
with severe immunodeficiency (ADA-. SCID) with remarkable dysfunction in both T
and B cell. Thereafter, it has been believed by many investigators that
deficiency of purine metabolic enzyme had played important role in immune
function mechanism. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the autoimmune diseases
which is very frequently seen, but its pathogenesis is not distinct yet. This
study has shown how the catabolic pathway of erythrocytes and lymphocytes in RA
has been distorted.MATERIALS: Erythrocytes and lymphocytes in peripheral blood
were obtained from patients with RA (48 cases), SLE (4), primary gout (55) and
healthy control (23). 2. T cell and non-T cell in peripheral blood were obtained 
from patients with RA (5), gout (55) and healthy control (28). 3. T cell and
non-T cell in joint fluid were obtained from patients with RA (19) and
osteoarthritis (OA (9)).
METHODS: Erythrocytes and lymphocytes were separated from peripheral blood by
Ficoll-Conray (density 1,077) by use of gradient centrifugation method. The
lymphocytes with PBS was mixed with sheep red blood cells. E rosette-positive (T 
cell) and E rosette-negative (non-T cell) populations were separated from
lymphocytes in peripheral blood and joint fluid by human sodium metrizoate Ficoll
mixed solution (density 1,090) by use of gradient centrifugation method.
Erythrocytes bursted at -70 degrees C and lymphocytes were sonicated for 25 sec. 
at 20 kHz. The reaction mixture which consisted of 0.2 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH
7.4), 30 mM [8-14C] adenosine and the samples was incubated at 37 degrees C for
30 min. After incubation, adenosine, inosine and the reaction mixture were
applied on DEAE-cellulose paper. Radioactivity of the samples was measured with
liquid scintillation counter.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in ADA activity of erythrocytes
between normal male and female, but a significant difference was found in ADA
activity of lymphocytes among its subpopulations. ADA activity of erythrocytes
and lymphocytes in RA patients was much lower than the other groups (gout and
normal subjects). Particularly, ADA activity in T cell was the lowest. In gouty
patients, ADA activity of erythrocytes and T cell was higher. ADA activity of
peripheral erythrocytes in RA patients was lower than that of joint
fluid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6332160  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1734. Nuklearmedizin. 1984 Feb;23(1):4-8.

Quality control of radiopharmaceuticals.

Pfeiffer G.

A good quality assurance system ensures that a product will be safe and suitable 
for the intended use. Quality control is an important part of the quality
assurance system. Two main topics are discussed in this paper: General aspects
including regulations, possibilities, economics and responsibility;
andPROCEDURES: Methods for the determination of the physical, chemical,
pharmaceutical and biological purity with special regard to new methods, problems
and pitfalls, e.g. the measurement of radioactivity using an isotope calibrator; 
the radionuclide purity of 123I; alpha- and beta-emitting impurities in 99mTc ;
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC); Mini-chromatograms; and the value 
of animal tests.

PMID: 6728692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. Onkologie. 1984 Feb;7 Suppl 1:55-61.

[Monitoring of heart function in the treatment with cardiotoxic cytostatic
drugs].

[Article in German]

Richter von Arnauld HP, Kleeberg UR, Hassel C, Mergenthaler G, Erdmann H.

It is the purpose of this paper to show the concept of noninvasive assessment of 
cardiomyopathy (CM) in cytostatic treatment, esp. with daunorubicin A (A). Our
follow-up study during therapy with A shows 255 patients, examined by ECG, by
systolic time intervals (STI)-PEP/LVET (normal value less than or equal to 0.44) 
and PEPI (normal value less than or equal to 148 ms) by echocardiography (UCG)
with measurement of shortening fraction (SF), normal value less than or equal to 
30% and in 6 cases by microcatheter with exercise test.RESULTS: (1) ECG does not 
predict CM. (2) 23 patients (8%) had abnormal SF in UCG, 6 patients of these
having no symptoms of cardiac failure. These patients were examined by
microcatheter, all 6 having abnormal values during exercise. So all patients with
abnormal SF had objective signs of latent or over CM. (3) PEP/LVET was abnormal
in all patients with CM, but false positive in 22% of all investigations, mostly 
by shortening of LVET. PEPI, abnormal in all patients with CM, was false positive
only in 8.8. UCG is the most specific noninvasive method for assessment of CM in 
cytostatic treatment. STI are less specific, but highly sensitive to CM and
therefore a useful screening method. PEPI gives the highest specificity, allowing
a better selection than PEP/LVET. STI in contrast to UCG can easily be obtained
outside cardiologic centers, ie., in the oncologic department itself. UCG by
cardiologic units are needed only about 10-15% of investigations. If all values
are abnormal, cardiotoxic treatment should be stopped, even when patients are
asymptomatic.

PMID: 6371643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1736. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1984 Jan 28;114(4):136-40.

[Lethality and danger of 14 types of purulent meningitis in the pre-ampicillin
and in the ampicillin period. Synoptic overview of an epidemiologic study].

[Article in German]

Buchs S, Pfister P.

Based on epidemiological data in the western literature, the lethality of
purulent meningitis over the last 32 years has been assessed. 14 types of
meningitis (11 with frequent, 3 with rare etiologic agents) were investigated,
and the results of the pre-ampicillin period (1948-1962) compared with the
post-ampicillin period (1963-1979).RESULTS: during the ampicillin period
lethality decreased significantly in patients aged below 60 years. For meningitis
caused by salmonellae and certain strains of streptococci, the decrease was not
statistically significant. In the population over 60, however, no significant
decrease occurred, and the lethality of meningococcal meningitis even increased
significantly. Presentation in graph form shows these findings very clearly, and 
comparison with the lethality of Hemophilus influenzae meningitis serves to
express the potential danger of all these meningitis types numerically.

PMID: 6701492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1737. Acta Cardiol. 1984;39(4):255-71.

Visualization and analysis of right heart blood flow patterns by contrast
echocardiography.

Santoso T, Sibarani T, Trisnohadi HB, Abdurahman N, Sukaton U, Hugenholtz PG,
Roelandt J.

The clinical utility of visualization of blood flow patterns across the tricuspid
valve (TV) and pulmonary valve (PV) by M-mode contrast echocardiography was
studied in 38 patients with documented valvular or congenital heart disease and
in 15 controls. Diastolic turbulence was observed in the TV outflow side in three
patients with tricuspid stenosis. Turbulent flow was also detected during systole
in patients with septal defects (atrial septal defect in four patients and
ventricular septal defect in one patient) in the right ventricular outflow tract 
and in three atrial septal defect patients also in the inflow tract, presumably
because of increased volume of flow. Tricuspid regurgitation (11 patients) was
characterized by retrograde laminar jet throughout systole, while in pulmonary
regurgitation (six patients) retrograde flow was initially laminar although later
on it might become turbulent. In pulmonary hypertension (29 patients) antegrade
flow occurred approximately to mid-systole and then was interrupted by retrograde
laminar flow which contributed to the mid-systolic closure of the pulmonary valve
and pulmonary regurgitation in some cases.CONCLUSIONS: contrast echocardiography 
is a useful technique to analyse right heart blood flow patterns and may aid the 
diagnosis of various right heart abnormalities.

PMID: 6385587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1738. Adv Space Res. 1984;4(12):31-3.

Cardiovascular and hormonal responses to bicycle exercise during lower body
negative pressure.

Bonde-Petersen F(1), Suzuki M, Christensen NJ.

Author information: 
(1)August Krogh Institute, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

The purpose was to combine bicycle exercise and LBNP as a model to investigate
the mechanisms regulating circulation during gravitational stresses.METHODS:
Cardiac Output (CO) by acetylene-, argon-, oxygen rebreathing; Heart Rate (HR)
from ECG; Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP) by arm cuff; Plasma Nor-Epinephrine (NE), 
Epinephrine (E), and Lactate (HLa) by isotope and enzymatic techniques
respectively. Total Peripheral Resistance (TPR) = MAP/CO and stroke volume (SV) =
CO/HR. Six subjects exercised at 180-200 Watts in the upright position on a
mechanically braked computer controlled small bicycle ergometer placed in a LBNP 
box. The above parameters were measured at rest and at 5 and 9 min of exercise
without and with LBNP at -30 or -40 mmHg (depending on LBNP tolerance).
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: In the face of an increased sympathetic nervous activity
(NE+E,TPR, and HR increased) during exercise in LBNP, there was a decrease in CO 
and SV indicating that the venous return was insufficient. However, HLa was
unchanged demonstrating that the blood flow to the working muscles did not
suffer.

PMID: 11537791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1739. Am J Med Sci. 1984 Jan-Feb;287(1):27-30.

Plasma potassium changes in anuric hyperglycemia treated with insulin.

Tzamaloukas AH, Gardner KD Jr.

We followed sequentially the plasma potassium concentration in five, essentially 
anuric, hyperglycemic patients with no known abnormality of potassium metabolism 
and treated only with insulin. Acid-base balance, external potassium and fluid
balance, and weights did not change during observation. The following changes in 
plasma potassium concentration (delta K) were noted: In initial hyperkalemia
(three patients) delta K was -1.8 +/- 0.1 mmol/l (p less than 0.005). In
normokalemia (one patient) delta K was -1.3 mmol/l. In hypokalemia (one patient) 
delta K was +0.1 mmol/l. The correlation between the starting potassium
concentration and the change in potassium concentration was -0.88 (p =
0.05).CONCLUSIONS: When only parenteral insulin is used for treatment and
acid-base balances and body weights do not change during treatment in anuric
hyperglycemia: a) The change in potassium concentration is dependent on the
starting plasma potassium concentration, b) hyperkalemic patients will drop their
plasma potassium concentration toward normal, and c) hypokalemic patients may not
need potassium replacement.

PMID: 6367467  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1740. Ann Clin Res. 1984;16 Suppl 42:1-91.

The effect of decerebrate rigidity on intracranial pressure in man and animals.

Tsementzis SA.

Patients with decerebrate rigidity frequently show intracranial hypertension. The
factors responsible for this effect and their inter-relationships were explored
in cats and in patients with head injuries.ANIMALS: The factors examined,
separately and in combination, were elevation of central venous, intrathoracic,
intra-abdominal and systemic arterial pressures. The baselines thus established
were used for the investigation of the effects of these factors on the
intracranial pressure (ICP) in cats which had been rendered decerebrate by focal 
stereotactic mesencephalic lesions. Little or no change occurred in the ICP when:
Rigidity was mainly unilateral. Bilateral limb rigidity was extreme. Persistent
elevation of ICP occurred when: Truncal rigidity resulted in the simultaneous
elevation of the intrathoracic and intra-abdominal pressures. Elevation of the
systemic arterial pressure occurred in the presence of defective cerebrovascular 
homeostasis. Human: The dynamics and management of the complex clinical problem
posed by decerebrate rigidity were investigated in patients with head injuries
who exhibited well-developed bilateral rigidity under conditions of altered
cerebral elastance. Rigidity was quantified by measuring the resonant frequency
of the wrist induced by a printed-circuit motor. The brain elastance, ICP,
intrathoracic and blood pressures were measured throughout the study. The effect 
of pharmacological muscle paralysis on the ICP and rigidity was examined. It
appeared that well-developed decerebrate rigidity increased the ICP. The
relationship was direct; the greater the rigidity or cerebral elastance, the
greater the rise in ICP and vice versa. The two factors mainly responsible were
muscle hypertonicity and cerebral elastance. The rises in ICP were caused by the 
rigidity and although it may not always be possible to reduce the abnormally
increased elastance, the rigidity can certainly be abolished. As long as the
cerebral vascular homeostatic mechanisms were intact, spontaneous waning of the
rigidity or its abolition by muscle relaxants returned the ICP to its previous
resting level. Pancuronium produced much deeper and more lasting relaxation than 
either diazepam or chlorpromazine. During the period of mechanical ventilation,
alterations in ICP were of prognostic value as regards the outcome of the
injuries.

PMID: 6546190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1741. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 1984;102(3):163-6.

The role of rigidity in fracture fixation. An overview.

Uhthoff HK, Finnegan MA.

The optimal degree of rigidity of internal fixation of fractures is still a
matter of controversy. Since any attempt to clarify this situation must rest on a
clear terminology, we propose terms relating to different degrees of rigidity.
They are based on the material and the design of implants as well as the
morphologic features of repair. From our morphologic findings it is obvious that 
the healing response and the subsequent structural remodelling depend on bone
deformation and gap motion.CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: For sound patient care, the
most ideal mode of internal fixation by plates, yielding rapid and efficient
fracture healing, has to be established scientifically in a comparative study.

PMID: 6703873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1742. Arzneimittelforschung. 1984;34(9B):1184-5.

Paragonimus westermani: pathogenesis and clinical features of infection.

Choi WY.

PATHOGENESIS: Although the pathogenesis of human infection of P. westermani is
not fully elucidated, experimental infections of cats or dogs could explain the
early phase of paragonimiasis. As the larvae of P. westermani penetrate the
intestinal wall and localize in the peritoneal cavity there appears to be a
considerable migration inside the abdominal cavity before they direct toward the 
chest cavity through the diaphragm. Approximately 20 days following experimental 
infection with metacercariae by oral route first pathological changes can be
detected in the pleural cavity with turbid or haemorrhagic exudation containing
also numerous pus cells. Also juvenile parasites are often found in the pleural
cavity. The diaphragm is another organ that is heavily affected by penetrating
larvae and by surrounding intense inflammatory reactions that develop about 25
days after infection. The worms finally get into the lung parenchyma and induce
acute exudative pneumonitis and haemorrhage. They gradually mature and are
encysted, thereby producing zones of active inflammation with exudate and of
collagenous fibrous tissue. The worms are found usually in pairs. When grown up, 
these worms are often found inside the bronchial lumen lined with bronchial
epithelia of squamous metaplastic character. The cysts consist of the parasite
and of dense collagenous connective tissue including various inflammatory cells
and eosinophils.
CLINICAL FEATURES: The most remarkable clinical feature is cough and blood-tinged
sputum. In 1907 paragonimiasis was classified into 4 types: chest paragonimiasis,
cerebral paragonimiasis, abdominal paragonimiasis and generalized paragonimiasis.
The clinical symptoms of chest paragonimiasis are haemoptysis in some cases, and 
quite a few patients complain of difficulty in breathing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

PMID: 6542390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1743. Arzneimittelforschung. 1984;34(9B):1156-9.

Clonorchis sinensis: experimental and clinical studies with praziquantel in
Korea.

Soh CT.

EXPERIMENTAL STUDIES: A high degree of prophylactic effect was achieved with a
single dose of praziquantel
(2-cyclohexylcarbonyl-1,2,3,6,7,11b-hexahydro-4H-pyrazino
[2,1-a]isoquinolin-4-one, EMBAY 8440, Biltricide), 600 mg/kg bwt once a day, when
given to rats at least one day before the infection. To treat the larvae or
immature worms at early stages of infection, the following regimens were
recommended: 2 X 50 mg/kg bwt for 5 days (Soh et al. 1980) or 3 X 100 mg/kg bwt
for 2 days. By morphological examination, it was found that praziquantel induced 
chronic degeneration of all organs of the parasite such as vacuolization of
secretory granules in the integument, degenerative changes of mitochondria and so
on. The vacuoles might fuse with each other, and eventually form a balloon-like
structure on the tegumental layer causing disruption.
CLINICAL STUDIES: Among various regimens with different dosages, administration
of 3 X 25 mg/kg bwt for 2 days showed the best results with complete cure. 53
cases were treated, 33 receiving a dosage of 3 X 25 mg/kg bwt on a single day and
20 receiving the same dosage on two days; the former achieved 99.4% egg reduction
rate and 96.9% complete cure, and the latter dosage resulted in 100% complete
cure. Side effects such as epigastric pain, nausea, lassitude and headache were
complained of in 4 cases among the 53, but were mild and transient.
Clinico-physiological examinations during treatment were within normal limits.
Clinical symptoms disappeared within one month after treatment. A similar result 
was reported by other authors, by one of them in one heavily infected case (EPG
452,633).

PMID: 6391503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1744. Basic Res Cardiol. 1984 Jan-Feb;79(1):75-9.

Vulnerability of the right ventricle to cathodal, anodal, and bipolar stimulation
at double diastolic threshold strength.

Pop T, Treese N, Meinertz T, Kasper W.

The repetitive ventricular response (RVR) to three stimulation techniques
(bipolar, cathodal and anodal) was investigated in 35 patients. 26 patients
suffered from coronary heart disease and 9 patients from dilative cardiomyopathy.
The stimulation study was performed at a ventricular driving rate of 120/min with
one and two premature ventricular extrastimuli. We used rectangular impulses of
1.8 ms duration at double diastolic threshold strength. RVR was scored as
follows: 0: no RVR, 1: one nonstimulated RVR, 2: two nonstimulated RVR, 3: three 
nonstimulated RVR, 4: four to ten nonstimulated RVR, 5: more than ten
nonstimulated RVR lasting less than 2 minutes, 6: sustained ventricular
tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. We found that with unipolar anodal
stimulation the diastolic threshold was significantly greater and the effective
refractory period of the right ventricle was significantly shorter as compared to
the other stimulation techniques. Between the three different electrode
configurations there were no significant differences concerning the number of
consecutive ventricular depolarizations following premature
stimulation.CONCLUSION: the phenomenon of RVR is not influenced by the
stimulation technique (bipolar, cathodal and anodal) at double diastolic
threshold.

PMID: 6732721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1745. Bull Cancer. 1984;71(1):57-64.

[Diagnostic value of clustered microcalcifications discovered by mammography
(apropos of 227 cases with histological verification and without a palpable
breast tumor)].

[Article in French]

Le Gal M, Chavanne G, Pellier D.

Excisions with histological examination were performed in 227 cases of breast
microcalcifications without palpable tumor. 99 benign lesions, 27 borderline
lesions and 101 carcinomas, 58 of them in situ, were found. Different
radiological parameters were studied in relation to histological results:
According to the morphology of the calcifications, a classification of 5 types
was made. Type 1: annular: 100 per cent were benign lesions. Type 2: regularly
punctiform: 22 per cent were malignant lesions. Type 3: too fine for precizing
the shape: 40 per cent were malignant lesions. Type 4: irregularly punctiform: 66
per cent were malignant lesions. Type 5: vermicular: 100 per cent of the lesions 
were malignant. The number of calcifications was higher in carcinomas and 56 per 
cent of the lesions with more than 30 calcifications were malignant. Close
grouping: when there were more than 10 calcifications within a 5 mm diameter
area, 57 per cent of malignant lesions were found. Several clusters: 70 per cent 
were correlated with malignant lesions. Uneven sizes: no signification.LOCATION: 
the rare retroareolar location correlated with benign lesions in 64 per cent of
the cases. Furthermore, the malignant lesions were rare (24%) in women under 40
years of age. For these young women, the authors suggest to directly excise the
most suspicious microcalcifications as based on the factors of suspicion and to
simply follow the other cases.

PMID: 6713115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn. 1984;10(6):553-60.

Determinants of outcome following left ventricular aneurysmectomy.

Nestico PF, Hakki AH, Iskandrian AS, Hakki AH, Kay H, Mundth ED.

The determinants of outcome after left ventricular aneurysmectomy are not well
understood. We analyzed preoperative follow-up information on 38 patients who had
undergone left ventricular aneurysmectomy. At a mean follow-up of 39 months
(range 6 to 68), 25 patients (66%) improved by at least one functional class (New
York Heart Association) (Group I), and 13 patients (Group II) either died (n: 8) 
or had persistent congestive heart failure (n: 5). Patients in Group I had
significantly higher left ventricular ejection fraction before surgery than
patients in Group II (38 +/- 12% vs. 29 +/- 14%, P less than 0.04). The volume of
the aneurysm at end-diastole was smaller among patients in Group I than Group II 
(42 +/- 32 ml vs. 73 +/- 47 ml, P less than 0.04). The contractile indices of the
nonaneurysm segment, contractile segment ejection fraction, basilar half ejection
fraction, and basilar fractional area shortening were not significantly different
between the two groups. There was no difference between the two groups in the
preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, cardiac index, pulmonary
artery wedge pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, extent of coronary artery
disease, number of bypass grafts inserted, or aortic cross-clamp
times.CONCLUSION: 1) The ejection fraction and volume of the aneurysm are more
important predictors of outcome after left ventricular aneurysmectomy than the
contractile indices of the nonaneurysmal left ventricle and 2) symptomatic
improvement occurs in 66% of patients after left ventricular aneurysmectomy.

PMID: 6334558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1747. Childs Brain. 1984;11(2):77-86.

Porencephalic congenital cysts with hydrocephalus.

Suarez JC, Sfaello ZM, Albarenque M, Viano JC.

The therapeutic criteria according to tomographic findings are reviewed. 10
children, 6 male and 4 female, with porencephalic congenital cysts were studied. 
Early symptoms began within the first 6 months of life in 9 cases, and at the age
of 5 years in 1. The most frequent symptoms were: seizures in 3; motor deficit in
5; retarded psychomotor development in 7; endocranial hypertension syndrome in 7;
symmetric macrocrania in 7; paresis of the motor ocular nerves in 4. Preoperative
studies: X-ray films-1 each patient-showed diastasis of sutures in 6 and cranial 
asymmetry in 2. Electroencephalograms-6 patients-were abnormal and diffuse in 3, 
hipsarrhythmic in 2, and focal in 1. CT-1 each patient-showed porencephalic cysts
in all the patients; ventricular dilatation in 9; a single ventricle in 1, and a 
shift of the midline in 5. Postoperative studies: EEG, 1 each patient; CT, 1 each
patient.SURGICAL TREATMENT: 8 patients underwent peritoneal shunts and 2 atrial
shunts. Plastic surgery of the dysraphy was also performed. Postsurgical
treatment: Rehabilitation and anti-convulsive treatment-4 patients. There were no
deaths among the patients. The morbidity improved.

PMID: 6723429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Clin Ther. 1984;6(6):808-23.

Effect of combination of antacid and cimetidine on 24-hour intragastric acidity
in patients with asymptomatic duodenal ulcer.

Mahachai V, Jamali F, Thomson AB.

By means of a Latin square design, the effect of antacid alone and in combination
with cimetidine on a 24-hour intragastric hydrogen ion (H+) activity and serum
gastrin profiles was studied in eight patients with duodenal ulcer. Antacid given
seven times a day (one and three hours after meals and at bedtime) combined with 
600 mg BID of cimetidine (C + A7) achieved greater suppression of H+ after
breakfast, overnight, and over the 24-hour period than did antacid alone seven
times daily (A7). Antacid given four times a day (one and three hours after lunch
and after supper) combined with cimetidine BID (C + A4) maintained the
neutralizing capacity during this time, but was less effective than the C + A7
regimen. However, C + A4 produced more suppression of nocturnal H+ than did A7. A
higher percentage of the readings at or above pH 4.0 were obtained with C + A7
than with A7 or C + A4. A greater postprandial integrated gastrin response was
obtained with all active treatments as compared with a placebo regimen. The mean 
peak cimetidine concentration (Cmax) was higher but the time to peak (Tmax) was
shorter after the morning than after the evening dose. The area under the
cimetidine concentration-time curve and the Cmax and Tmax values after the
morning and evening doses of cimetidine were not affected by the coadministration
of antacid.IN CONCLUSION: (1) combination therapy of cimetidine plus antacid is
more effective than antacid alone in the reduction of intragastric H+; (2)
antacid alone fails to suppress the overnight intragastric acidity; and (3)
antacid given concurrently with cimetidine does not interfere with
pharmacokinetic determinants of plasma cimetidine concentration.

PMID: 6391667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1749. Encephale. 1984;10(5):217-22.

[Haloperidol decanoate. Results of an open-ended multicentric study in chronic
psychotic states].

[Article in French]

Lemperiere T, Ropert R, Leger JM, Alexandre JY, Clerc G, Darondel A, Delaunay J, 
Delteil P, Malauzat D, Raynaud J, et al.

An open multicentric study of 196 in-patients was carried out in 9 centres. After
an initial stabilization (min. 15 days) with oral haloperidol, patients received 
haloperidol decanoate IM for at least 24 weeks (or a minimum of 9
injections).RESULTS: - esterification of haloperidol increased the duration of
its efficacy (interval between 2 injections: average 4 weeks) without interfering
with its therapeutic activity (global appreciation scale, BPRS at each injection 
and at the end of the treatment); - equivalent quantities of haloperidol injected
at a time were 15 to 20 times those administered daily during the initial
stabilisation period; - side-effects were not different with haloperidol
decanoate as compared to those of the previous period (haloperidol).

PMID: 6519017  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1750. J Adolesc Health Care. 1984 Jan;5(1):14-20.

Georgetown Adolescent Psychosocial Rating Scale.

Magrab PR, Shearin RB, Bronheim SM, Jones RL, Ahmed SW.

The Georgetown Adolescent Psychosocial Rating Scale (GAPRS) was developed as a
clinical tool to be used in the evaluation of the psychosocial development of the
adolescent. Preliminary findings have shown it to be useful in assessing normal
psychosocial development and identifying deviant states. The GAPRS was developed 
in a clinical setting over a 5-year period as a questionnaire with the
statistical ability to assess adolescent psychosocial development. The data from 
this study support the GAPRS as a promising new clinical tool to be used with the
adolescent patient for assessing normal and deviant psychosocial maturation in an
efficient and concise manner.SPECULATION: Adolescent psychosocial maturation can 
be measured using key questions to measure normal development and deviant states.

PMID: 6693341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1751. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jan;66(1):95-106.

The composition of normal and osteoarthritic articular cartilage from human knee 
joints. With special reference to unicompartmental replacement and osteotomy of
the knee.

Brocklehurst R, Bayliss MT, Maroudas A, Coysh HL, Freeman MA, Revell PA, Ali SY.

The articular cartilage from nineteen osteoarthritic and fourteen normal control 
adult human knee joints was analyzed for changes in water content, proteoglycan
composition and structure, glycosaminoglycan synthesis rates, and cell content.
We found no significant differences between visually intact cartilage from
osteoarthritic knee joints and cartilage from control joints for any of the
parameters studied. In osteoarthritic specimens in which the cartilage surface
was not intact the biochemical changes depended on the degree of fibrillation.
Surface-fibrillated specimens had a higher water content in the surface layers
but no change in the content or synthesis rate of glycosaminoglycan. Deeply
fibrillated cartilage, however, had an increased water content through its full
depth, and there was a decrease in both the rate of synthesis and the content of 
glycosaminoglycans.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this study suggest that
degenerative changes in osteoarthritic knees are focal in origin and that
corrective osteotomy or unicompartmental joint replacement might be rational
procedures for knees in which the cartilage in all of one compartment is visually
intact.

PMID: 6690447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1752. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jan;66(1):65-70.

The effects of angular and rotational deformities of both bones of the forearm.
An in vitro study.

Tarr RR, Garfinkel AI, Sarmiento A.

In intact fresh cadaver specimens, we experimentally studied angular and rotatory
deformities at the distal and middle levels of the forearm. The remaining
pronation and supination motions were measured. When both bones of the forearm
were angulated with a combined deformity (radio-ulnar or dorsovolar, or both) of 
10 degrees, a loss of pronation-supination of 12.5 +/- 4.5 per cent occurred in
the forearms with a distal-third fracture; in the forearms with a middle-third
fracture the average loss was 16.0 +/- 5.7 per cent. Pronation losses were
similar for both distal and middle-third deformities. However, supination losses 
were much less affected (p less than 0.01) in forearms with deformities at the
distal-third level while the losses were considered drastic for middle-third
deformities. Rotatory deformities produced losses of pronation-supination that
were equal to the degree of deformity.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Study of the
artificially created deformities in cadavera indicated that angular and rotatory 
deformities of the forearm of 10 degrees or less result in minimum limitation of 
pronation-supination. These degrees of limitation of motion in clinical practice 
are easily compensated for and are cosmetically acceptable. The fact that the
perfect anatomical restoration of fracture alignment that often is obtained with 
internal fixation does not always result in complete restoration of motion
suggests that: (1) this residual impairment of function is due to soft-tissue
scarring, and (2) the mild angular and rotatory deformities resulting from
nonsurgical treatment of fractures of the forearm may produce limitations of
motion of an equally acceptable degree.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6690445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1753. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jan;66(1):7-20.

Free physeal transplantation in the rabbit. An experimental approach to focal
lesions.

Olin A, Creasman C, Shapiro F.

We have developed a procedure to transplant free autogenous iliac-crest physeal
grafts into defects created in the lateral aspect of the distal femoral physis of
rabbits. Excision of a portion of the lateral part of the physis led consistently
to formation of a bone bridge, growth arrest, and valgus deformity. There was no 
evidence of increased activity by the persisting physis to fill the defect or of 
differentiation of mesenchymal cells into a functioning physeal layer. We carried
out preliminary studies to define the optimum conditions for obtaining and
transplanting a free autogenous iliac-crest physeal graft into the femoral
physeal defect. The iliac apophysis is composed of a fibrocartilaginous layer,
cartilage similar to epiphyseal cartilage, and a physis. The graft included the
physis and some overlying epiphyseal cartilage but the outermost
fibrocartilaginous layer and the surrounding perichondrium were removed, as these
two tissues were believed to inhibit diffusion. The graft was separated gently
from the metaphysis. Histological studies showed that the separation occurred at 
the lower hypertrophic-chondrocyte zone. After optimum techniques had been
developed for transplantation and the feasibility of the procedure had been
established in twenty-one rabbits, the capacity of the physeal transplants to
prevent bone-bridge formation, growth arrest, and valgus deformity was evaluated 
in thirty-nine rabbits, three to four months old, using the standardized
transplantation procedure. The results were assessed in terms of the gross and
radiographic appearance of the femur, measurements of length, and histological
characteristics. The transplanted physis retained its normal morphology, united
with the residual part of the original femoral physis, and participated in
endochondral bone formation. Bone-bridge formation between the femoral epiphysis 
and metaphysis, growth arrest, and valgus deformity were prevented or minimized
in most animals, and the physeal transplants yielded good or excellent results in
60 per cent of the procedures using stringent criteria. The results of this study
show that free physeal transplants into focal defects can remain viable and
function satisfactorily if they are fashioned properly and inserted
gently.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study demonstrated that transplantation of an
iliac-crest physis into a defect of the lateral aspect of the distal femoral
physis can prevent bone-bridge formation, growth arrest, and the development of
valgus deformity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6418748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1754. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1984 Jan;66(1):107-12.

Studies on the antigenicity of bone. II. Donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies in
human recipients of freeze-dried allografts.

Friedlaender GE, Strong DM, Sell KW.

Freeze-dried bone allografts from donors of known tissue type evoked
donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies in nine of forty-three patients (forty-four
procedures). Eight of the nine sensitized patients were followed
roentgenographically for an average of twenty-three months and were known to have
had a satisfactory resolution of the benign process for which the graft was
employed. The ninth patient was doing well when lost to follow-up four months
after receiving a bone allograft.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The questions of whether
immune responses to bone allografts occur in humans and, if so, adversely
influence the incorporation of the graft can be answered at this time only by
demonstrating the presence and frequency of such responses and how they correlate
with clinical events. A large variety of techniques can be used to demonstrate
immune responses. The technique that we used revealed that a small group of
patients became sensitized to HLA antigens that were known to be present in the
allograft donor but none of the recipients had evidence of adverse effects caused
by the graft, as judged non-invasively.

PMID: 6361041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. J Mal Vasc. 1984;9(4):301-6.

[Aneurysm of the infrarenal abdominal aorta in octogenarians. Apropos of a series
of 30 consecutive cases].

[Article in French]

Glock Y, De Jong Z, Roux D, Cerene A, Puel P.

The authors report a series of 30 operated consecutive infrarenal abdominal
aneurysms on patients aged of 80 years old or more. The operation is necessary in
emergency in 13 cases (43.3%): 10 patients with sudden severe abdominal pain and 
faintness and 3 with rupture. In 17 cases the indication of surgery is "elective"
(56.7%): sole physical finding in 10 cases, one case of ureteral tract
compression and 6 cases of recent pain. In 13 cases, the infrarenal aneurysm is
associated with arterial occlusive disease. In 20% of the cases, the operation
consists on aorto-aortic bypass graft; in the other cases, aorto iliac bypass is 
necessary; in 3 cases the distal implantation of the graft is on the groin, on
the femoral artery. The hospital mortality is 20% of the cases (6 cases); after
operation in emergency the mortality is higher (30.6%) than after elective
surgery (11.7%). The mean of the late follow up is of 39 months (2 months to 9
years): the late mortality is 16.6% of the cases (5 cases). The actuarial
percentage of survival at 4 years is 60%.CONCLUSION: The elderly is not a
contraindication for surgical treatment of the infrarenal aortic aneurysm. The
late survival rate is good after the operation.

PMID: 6527072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1756. J Physiol (Paris). 1984;79(6):491-5.

Acute effects of angiotensin II in intact and adrenalectomized conscious dogs.

Kaczmarczyk G, Marx M, Lee K, Mohnhaupt R, Reinhardt HW, Ehlers R.

Renal effects of A II, retention of sodium and water, may be mediated by the
stimulation of aldosterone secretion and/or by direct effects of A II on the
kidneys. An attempt was made to differentiate between these two
possibilities.METHODS: Conscious, female beagle dogs were used. The dogs were
kept under standardized conditions (metabolic cage, daily sodium intake 4.5 mmol 
X kg-1 bw, chronically implanted arterial and venous catheters, i.v. hormone
substitution after adrenalectomy by a portable pump). A II was infused i.v. over 
a period of 60 min after 60 min control. (Rate: 1, 4, 20 or 200 ng X min-1 X kg-1
bw).
RESULTS: Mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) increased with 20 and 200 ng A II X 
min-1 X kg-1 bw by an average of 34 mm Hg and 65 mm Hg resp. before and after
adrenalectomy. Before adrenalectomy: sodium and water excretion decreased always 
at 4 and 20 ng A II X min-1 X kg-1 bw, whereas a rate of 200 ng A II X min-1 X
kg-1 bw had different effects on renal sodium and water excretion. After
adrenalectomy: sodium and water excretion decreased at 4 ng A II X min-1 X kg-1
bw. Whereas a rate of 20 and 200 ng. -As no marked alterations of the glomerular 
filtration rate occurred, sodium retention observed was mainly due to tubular
effects of A II. Plasma aldosterone concentration increased at 4, 20 and 200 ng A
II X min-1 X kg-1 bw in the intact dogs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6536752  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1757. Nephron. 1984;37(3):180-5.

Chronic hemodialysis: high risk patients for arrhythmias?

Weber H, Schwarzer C, Stummvoll HK, Joskowics G, Wolf A, Steinbach K, Kaindl F.

Patients with end-stage kidney disease undergoing chronic maintenance dialysis
(HD) are a high risk group for sudden death due to cardiovascular complications. 
It was the aim of the study to investigate the quantity and quality of
arrhythmias during HD and between two consecutive HD (interval, I) with regard to
the reproducibility of the expected results. 15 patients (8 males, 7 females)
underwent continuous Holter monitoring (LT-ECG) under ambulatory conditions over 
96 h including two HD ( HD1 + HD2 ) and two intervals (I1 + I2). The LT-ECG
recordings were analysed with the computer assisted ' Multipass -Scanning' system
with regard to heart rate (HR), supraventricular premature beats (SPB),
ventricular ectopics (PVC) and malignant ventricular arrhythmias.RESULTS: The HR 
demonstrated a typical, well-known circadian pattern with remarkable increase of 
the HR during each HD. Except for rare, single SPB and/or PVC, no
supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias could be detected reproducibly.
Single PVC occurred in patients with a lower potassium value. No malignant
ventricular arrhythmias were found. In comparison to previously published
studies, which demonstrated a high incidence of malignant ventricular
arrhythmias, these conflicting results were due to differences in patients'
recruitment (underlying disease, age, etc.), the performance of HD (duration, ion
concentration of the dialysate etc.), serum potassium levels and drug medication 
(digitalis, quinidine). In summary, chronic HD per se did not enhance the risk of
malignant arrhythmias in patients with end-stage kidney disease.

PMID: 6429558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1758. Neuropsychobiology. 1984;12(1):34-8.

A controlled double-blind study comparing binedaline and imipramine in the
treatment of endogenous depression.

Faltus F, Geerling FC.

50 hospitalized endogenously depressed patients (age 20-60 years, HAM-D greater
than or equal to 18) were treated daily with 3 X 50 mg imipramine or 3 X 100 mg
binedaline. Clinical and laboratory assessments were done before and on days 1,
3, 5, 15 and 30 of treatment. Mean Hamilton and Zung scores were statistically
significant lower on day 30 when compared with pretreatment scores. No
psychiatric, clinical or statistical differences were noted between the two
groups. The efficacy of the clinical global impression scale was slightly higher 
in the binedaline groups. Frequency of side effects (specially anticholinergic)
was lower in the binedaline group.CONCLUSION: binedaline is equally effective as 
imipramine, but with less side effects.

PMID: 6239991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1759. No Shinkei Geka. 1984 Jan;12(1):37-45.

[Effect of dopamine on local cortical blood flow and somatosensory evoked
potential in acute stage of cerebral ischemia--basic study].

[Article in Japanese]

Kinomoto H, Nakagawa Y, Tsuru M.

Effect of intravenous injection of dopamine on local cortical blood flow (CBF)
and somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) was evaluated using canine cerebral
ischemia, which was produced by occlusion of unilateral middle cerebral artery.
CBF was monitored with H2 clearance method and SEP was recorded by stimulating
ischias nerve of contralateral side and P1 to N1 peak to peak amplitude, V1, out 
of components of SEP was used as a parameter expressing brain function. Systemic 
arterial pressure was also measured. Protocol in this study is shown in Fig.
1.RESULTS: 1) As to change of systemic arterial pressure during administration of
dopamine (Fig. 2) Systolic systemic arterial pressure was significantly increased
at doses of dopamine of 25 and 65 gamma compared to the value obtained before
initiation of dopamine injection. There was nearly no increase in mean systemic
arterial pressure at doses of 5 and 10 gamma and mean systemic arterial pressure 
increased by 5 to 15 mmHg at doses of 20, 30 and 25 gamma, without significant
increase compared to the value before start of dopamine administration. Pulse
rate became significantly wider at doses of 10, 20, 30, 25 and 65 gamma. 2) As to
increase of local cortical blood flow (CBF) during dopamine injection (Fig. 3, 5)
CBF increased at doses of dopamine of 5, 10, 20, 30, 25 and 65 gamma compared to 
the one before dopamine injection. However, degree of increase of blood flow was 
not significant. 3) As to recovery of somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) during
administration of dopamine (Fig. 4, 6) SEP was recovered at doses of dopamine of 
5, 10, 20, 30, 25 and 65 gamma. Degree of recovery of SEP was significant at
doses of 5, 20, 30 and 25 gamma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6717735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1760. Psychopharmacology Suppl. 1984;1:182-92.

Simulated car driving as a useful technique for the determination of residual
effects and alcohol interaction after short- and long-acting benzodiazepines.

Willumeit HP, Ott H, Neubert W.

SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 54 healthy volunteers took part in 3 placebo controlled
double-blind trials designed partly as crossover, partly as parallel group
studies. The long-acting (elimination half-life greater than 24 h) test drugs
diazepam (DIA 5; 10 mg) and flurazepam (FLU 30 mg) were compared to the
short-acting drugs (elimination half-life less than 12 h) lormetazepam (LOR 1.5; 
2 mg) and mepindolol sulfate (MEP 10 mg; betablocker) following acute or
subchronic application. Alcohol (ALC; 0.4-0.8 per mill blood ALC concentration)
was used as a compound interfering with the test drugs. Measurements with the
driving simulator TS2 were taken at different times between 1 h and 15 h p.a.
RESULTS: Subchronic use of FLU causes significant impairment of driving
performance the next morning in contrast to LOR which even increases the driving 
ability. The ALC potentiating effect of LOR is larger than that of DIA after
acute intake. MEP acts like placebo but reduces blood pressure and heart rate.
Interaction of LOR and ALC in the evening does not result in a prolonged hangover
effect which could disturb driving performance the next morning.
DISCUSSION: Short-acting benzodiazepines without active metabolites have a
profound advantage over those with long-acting accumulating characteristics in
respect to matutinal car driving ability, if those drugs are used as nighttime
hypnotics. These results highlight the necessity of screening hypnotic and
tranquilizing drugs concerning their influence on car driving performance at
different times after intake and under conditions of interactions with
psychotropic drugs, especially alcohol. In view of future methodological
requirements a revised model of driving simulation is presented. It is based on a
coherent description of the system "driver-vehicle environment" at the level of
visual conditions, vehicle behaviour and driver performance. Preliminary data are
shown.

PMID: 6147840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1761. Psychopharmacology Suppl. 1984;1:133-51.

Are electroencephalographic and psychomotor measures sensitive in detecting
residual sequelae of benzodiazepine hypnotics?

Ott H.

PURPOSE: The recent development of short-acting benzodiazepines without active
metabolites calls for a differentiation between the hangover effects of
long-acting (LBD) and short-acting (SBD) benzodiazepines, when used as nighttime 
sedatives. The question now arises as to which electrophysiological and
psychometric tests can record these effects with the highest degree of
sensitivity.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 35 healthy volunteers participated in 3 randomized
double-blind placebo-controlled studies. In the first 2 studies the short-acting 
benzodiazepine (LORMetazepam 2 mg), the medium-acting BD (FLUNitrazepam 2 mg) and
the long-acting BDs (FLURazepam 30 mg and DIAZepam 10 mg) were administered in
single oral doses at bedtime. Hangover was measured in the morning hours prior to
administration, and 12, 36, and either 60 h (first study) or 156 h (second study)
p.a. The measurements included the pharmaco-EEG, particularly the relative power 
in the beta band; visual analogue scales for assessing the subjective quality of 
sleep, EWL-adjective check list; pegboard test and radioreceptor assay. In the
third study, a single oral dose of LORM 2 mg was given and the acute sedative
effects were measured by the Adaptive Pursuit Tracking Test, Pauli memory test,
pegboard and Pursuit Rotor.
RESULTS: The sleep-inducing properties of all BDs could be detected quite clearly
on the first night p.a. Distinct hangover effects of LBD were apparent in the
pegboard test and residual effects in different beta frequency bands after the
first and, to a lesser degree, second nights. Such effects were barely detectable
after the SBD. The time course of the RRA plasma levels of LORM and FLUN
corresponded well to that of behaviour. The correspondence for DIAZ was less
clear. The pharmaco-EEG proved to be the most sensitive measure of benzodiazepine
effects, followed by continuous performance measures, such as the pursuit
tracking test and driving simulator. Relatively low discriminability was observed
with the discontinuous psychomotor tests, such as pegboard. These results have
been interpreted within a concept of "activation theory" and it has been
concluded that benzodiazepines more likely affect higher central nervous
activities, such as the level of vigilance and attention, than simple activities,
such as visumotor performance.

PMID: 6147836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1762. Ren Physiol. 1984;7(1):22-31.

Effect of ischemia and hypertonic saline loading on renal adenine nucleotides.

Knutsen Urbaitis B.

The present study was done to determine: (1) regional (cortex, red medulla and
papilla) changes in ATP, ADP and AMP resulting from periods of ischemia of 30-300
s; (2) whether ischemic changes in adenine nucleotides or lactate were modified
by hypertonic saline loading, and (3) whether adenylate kinase activity was
present in each region. Ischemia led to changes in all three adenine nucleotides 
which were characteristic for each region. In cortex, there was a major decrease 
in ATP, increase in AMP and a small transient increase in ADP. In red medulla
there were slower changes in ATP, ADP and AMP. In papilla, ATP decreased slightly
and ADP, as opposed to AMP, accumulated. Hypertonic saline loading increased the 
rate of ATP decrease and AMP accumulation, most markedly in red medulla. Lactate 
concentration rose similarly in control and hypertonic saline studies. Adenylate 
kinase activity was found to be present in each region.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the
rate of change of all three adenine nucleotides differs among the three renal
areas studied; (2) increases in renal transport work, associated with hypertonic 
saline loading, are reflected in an increase in the rate of ATP decay during
ischemia; (3) anaerobic metabolism, as indicated by tissue lactate concentration,
is not altered by hypertonic saline loading, and (4) the failure of AMP to
accumulate in papilla is not due to the absence of adenylate kinase.

PMID: 6701394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1763. Rev Fr Gynecol Obstet. 1984 Jan;79(1):51-2, 55-8.

[Surgical treatment of severe dyspareunia (personal technic)].

[Article in French]

Aupiais PY.

Deep dyspareunia is taken to describe pain "in the base of the abdomen" which,
without interfering with penetration, accompanies (or follows) sexual
intercourse. Amongst uterine malpositions, two forms have been widely described: 
retroflexion and retroversion. Emphasis should be placed upon another aspect
where the uterus, without any break in the angle between cervix and body, falls
as a whole onto the anterior surface of the cervix and the posterior perineum.
Clinical manifestations are identical in all three forms.OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE:
this is designed not only to restore the physiological angulation of the uterus
but to ensure that the vagina is of adequate functional width. It is a compromise
between posterior hysteropexy (Huguier), "douglassectomy" and exclusion of the
pouch of Douglas (Bret and Bardiaux). This technique has been used in a total of 
144 operations in the treatment of 71 cases of malposition and the results
compared with other techniques: anterior fixation (4 cases), posterior
hysteropexy (38 cases), exclusion of the pouch of Douglas (25 cases) and round
ligament plasty (5 cases).

PMID: 6397827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1764. Rev Pneumol Clin. 1984;40(2):99-104.

[Home oxygen therapy of chronic bronchitis patients. Clinical, functional and
pulmonary hemodynamic results. Apropos of 17 cases].

[Article in French]

Weitzenblum E, Ehrhart M, Oswald T, Lichnewski M, Messadi M, Roegel E.

Seventeen subjects (16 male, 1 female) with a mean age of 60 +/- 7 years were
studied.INCLUSION CRITERIA: severe chronic bronchitis (mean FEV1 = 960 ml with
frank hypoxaemia (PaO2 less than 60 mmHg); past history of right heart failure or
electrical signs of right ventricular hypertrophy or pulmonary hypertension (PAP 
greater than 20 mmHg); oxygen therapy at home for greater than 10/24 hours (most 
often greater than or equal to 12 hours) for more than a year; interval of more
than 6 months between the first haemodynamic investigation (before the start of
O2) and the last, this period being on average 23.9 +/- 18.6 months. From a
clinical standpoint, there were 5 deaths occurring 11 to 30 months after the
start of O2. Effort dyspnoea was stable or worsened but hospitalisations for
cardiorespiratory decompensation were less frequent than before the start of O2. 
There were no significant changes in arterial blood gases: PaO2 rose from 51.9
+/- 8.1 to 52.5 +/- 7.0 mmHg. PAP improved in 12 cases out of 17, and for the
group as a whole the difference was not statistically significant. However in the
sub-group where the daily duration of administration was greater than 12/24 hours
(n = 7), PAP improved in all the individual cases and fell on average from 26.4
+/- 6.8 to 19.9 +/- 3.4 mmHg (p less than 0.02) whilst in the 10-12 hours
sub-group there was no mean change in PAP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6729348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1765. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1984;92:116-20.

The role of bile salts in cysteamine-induced duodenal ulcer in the rat and the
ulceroprotective property of lysolecithin.

Clémençon GH, Fehr HF, Finger J.

Cysteamine induces duodenal ulcers in rats, but bile diversion inhibits ulcer
formation. Since lysolecithin inhibits stress ulceration in rats, it is assessed 
now whether lysolecithin inhibits cysteamine-induced ulcers, too. Male rats were 
operated: division of the duodenum distally to the pylorus, duodenojejunostomy.
Roux-en-Y duodenojejunostomy. 4 groups comprising 10 animals. Drinking solution
for group 1, 3 and 4: Na taurocholate and glycocholic acid (5 mmol/l). For group 
2 addition of 0.2 mmol/l lysolecithin. Cysteamine-HCl (10%) twice subcutaneously 
on the 19th day in group 1, 3 and 4, isotonic NaCl in group 2. In group four 1 ml
lysolecithin per gastric tube 1 h before cysteamine.RESULTS: Group 1: 8 animals
with 16 ulcers, group 2: 7 with 10 ulcers, group 3: no ulcers, group 4: 3 with 5 
ulcers (p less than 0.05/p less than 0.02).
CONCLUSION: Lysolecithin, a substance produced during fat digestion, exerted an
ulceroprotective property (lyso-protection) under experimental conditions, as
shown here for the first time, to the author's knowledge. The enhancement of
cysteamine-induced duodenal ulcer development by bile salts is again documented.

PMID: 6588495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1766. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1984;92:55-8.

Gastric mucosa permeability and HCO3- secretion 'in vivo' during perfusion of
damaging and protective agents across canine Heidenhain pouches.

Ventura U, Ceriani T, Moggio R.

Gastric mucosal barrier of 'in vivo' dogs with a Heidenhain pouch (HP) was broken
by butyric acid (BA). Cimetidine intravenously (5 mg/kg/h) prevented HCl
secretion. Unidirectional fluxes of H+ and Na+, passive mucosal permeability
[evaluated with a low-molecular-weight substance, polyethylenglycole 200(PEG
200)] were increased by BA while transparietal potential difference (PD) was
depressed. HCO3- secretion, measured as PCO2 in HP, was incremented .
Intragastric perfusion of acetazolamyde (Az) increased loss of BA from HP and
enhanced the rupture of gastric mucosa. HCO3- secretion was depressed by Az.
Intragastric perfusion of gastric phosphodiesterases inhibitors, theophylline
(Th) and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IMX), recovered the resistance of gastric
mucosa both to ions and PEG 200. Nevertheless HCO3- secretion remained high.IN
CONCLUSION: i) cytoprotection of gastric mucosa with either Th or IMX was
effective to normalize its resistance to ions and low-molecular-weight
substances; ii) increment of HCO3- secretion during cytoprotection was uncoupled 
with mechanisms dependent on membrane permeability.

PMID: 6204372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1767. Surg Gastroenterol. 1984;3(1):21-6.

PGF2 alpha mediated cytoprotection: a reassessment.

Gaskill HV 3rd, Sirinek KR, Levine BA.

The demonstration of gastrointestinal ctyoprotection by PGF2 alpha (a supposed
vasoconstrictor) has been cited as evidence against alteration of mucosal blood
flow as a mechanism for the cytoprotection phenomenon. However, cytoprotection by
PGF2 alpha has never been demonstrated in a model having concomitant
documentation of gastrointestinal blood flow. This experiment was designed to
accomplish two objectives. First, the effect of intravenous PGF2 alpha (0.1, 1.0,
10.0 mcg/kg/minute) on blood flow throughout the gastrointestinal tract was
documented in a chloralose anesthetized miniature swine model (n = 7). Second,
the effect of intravenous PGF2 alpha (1.0 mcg/kg/minute) on both gastric mucosal 
blood flow and stress ulceration was assessed during a 3-hour period of
hemorrhagic shock in the same model (six controls, six PGF2 alpha). The
radiolabeled microsphere technique of blood flow determination was
employed.RESULTS: Intravenous PGF2 alpha significantly decreased myocardial blood
flow at all doses employed. Although blood flow in the gastrointestinal tract
tended to decrease with the largest dose of PGF2 alpha, this did not reach
statistical significance. During shock PGF2 alpha had no effect on
gastrointestinal blood flow. Furthermore, there was no evidence of gastric
mucosal cytoprotection compared to controls. These results suggest that PGF2
alpha is neither vasoconstrictive nor cytoprotective when sub maximal doses are
used. Dismissal of mucosal blood flow as a possible mechanism of
prostaglandin-mediated cytoprotection is premature.

PMID: 6596684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1768. Ups J Med Sci. 1984;89(1):61-5.

Differential diagnosis of male central hypogonadism by short-term pulsatile LHRH 
administration.

Sippell WG, Hermanussen M, Partsch J.

In order to obtain a clinically valuable differentiation of central hypogonadism 
(CH), 18 male patients, including 13 with permanent gonadotropin deficiency (GD),
age 14.3-41 yrs, bone age 8.5-19 yrs, and 5 with constitutional delay (CD) of
puberty (age 15.3-20, bone age 12.5-15 yrs) were studied. Among the GD patients, 
there were 4 with anosmia (Kallmann's syndrome, KS), 6 with idiopathic
hypopituitarism (HP) and 3 with isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH). The 
spontaneous nocturnal plasma profile of LH and FSH was compared with that during 
pulsatile LHRH infusion (5 micrograms iv every 90 min) by a portable micropump
(Zyklomat) for 36 hrs. The pituitary-gonadal response was evaluated by
calculating the LH and FSH slopes during pulsatile LHRH and by comparing plasma
testosterone (T) before and after. While spontaneous nocturnal FSH pulses were
absent in all patients, between 1 and 4 significant LH pulses were seen in all CD
but in none of the GD patients. In all patients, mean FSH was significantly
higher during pulsatile LHRH than during sleep. During pulsatile LHRH
administration, significantly increasing FSH responses were seen in all KS and HP
patients, but in only 2 of the 5 CD and in none of the 3 HH patients. In all CD
boys (mean testis vol, 8.6 ml), T rose markedly during pulsatile LHRH (mean, from
168 to 414 ng/dl), whereas in all GD patients (mean testis vol, 2 ml) it did not 
(19 vs 27 ng/dl).CONCLUSIONS: Pulsatile LHRH for 36 hrs differentiates CD and GD 
far more exact than was previously possible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6377643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1769. Vision Res. 1984;24(2):163-5.

Why Mach bands are not seen at the edges of a step.

Ratliff F.

Mach bands are seen at the two ends of a ramp in luminance from one uniform level
to another. Narrow, sharp-edged stimuli centered on the ramp attenuate both Mach 
bands simultaneously.CONCLUSION: Mach bands are not seen at the edges of an
abrupt step change in luminance because the sharp edges actively suppress them.

PMID: 6710878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1770. Z Rechtsmed. 1984;92(2):87-94.

[Experimental studies of skull fractures in infants].

[Article in German]

Weber W.

According to pediatric statements, falls from a standing position may cause skull
fractures in infants without specific symptoms. Nearly every infant has at some
time fallen from the changing table or the baby carriage, etc. From the forensic 
aspect it is the duty of experts to discuss the "battered child syndrome."
Evidence given by the defendants concerning the height of the fall are
unreliable. Experimental test series concerned with the stumbling height (82 cm
in free fall) and three various types of floor-stone, carpet, and foam-backed
linoleum -were carried out. In each case skull fractures were seen. In three
cases the fractures crossed the sutures.CONCLUSIONS: (1) Each fall of an infant
from the height of a table may cause a skull fracture, which may lead to death;
(2) when child mishandling is suspected, all circumstances must be taken into
consideration.

PMID: 6720110  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1771. Minerva Med. 1983 Dec 15;74(47-48):2803-6.

[Cooking meat in microwave ovens does not cause formation of mutagenic
substances].

[Article in Italian]

Sirtori C, Paganuzzi M, Lombardo C, Ruzzon T, Santolini M, Dutto P, Lapide M,
Chiola S.

During the cooking process of meat, mutagenic and/or carcinogenic substances can 
be formed that can induce tumours of the gastro-intestinal tract or of other
organs in the rat. The formation of these substances is proportionate to the
cooking time, the cooking surface and the quantity of fats contained in meat. A
comparison is made between beef cooked on a grid where the temperature reaches
200 degrees C, and cooked in a microwave oven (Cuocorapido Candy 500 CL,
frequency 2450 Mhz) where the temperature does not exceed 100 degrees C.
Mutagenic substances were extracted by the Commoner technique and mutagenic
activity was assayed with the Ames test.RESULTS: no mutagenic activity was
demonstrated in the extracts of meat cooked in microwave ovens, while mutagenic
activity was clearly demonstrated in the extracts of meat cooked on a grid.

PMID: 6657121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1772. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 1983 Dec;27(6):443-50.

Regulation of intracellular acid-base equilibrium in rats.

Rothe KF.

The extracellular pH (pHe) of unrestrained male Sprague-Dawley rats was altered
by either inhalation of CO2 or infusion of sodium bicarbonate and then kept
constant for at least 2 h. The intracellular pH (pHi) was then determined by the 
DMO (5,5-dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedione)-method in heart, brain, liver, spleen,
and ten different skeletal muscle groups. pHi varied linearly with pHe in the
heart and the parenchymal organs. pHi in skeletal muscle remained constant over a
pHe range from 7.31 to 7.45 but varied linearly with pHe outside this
range.CONCLUSIONS: 1. pHi is influenced by CO2 inhalation or bicarbonate
infusion. 2. pHi may be different in different tissues at specified pHe. 3.
Skeletal muscle seems to be well protected against mild extracellular acidosis.
4. Slight changes of pHe affect the pHi of the heart, brain, liver, and spleen.
5. Regulation of intra- and extracellular acid-base balance probably occurs by
bicarbonate transfer between the intra- and extracellular compartments. 6. The
acid-base status of the various intracellular compartments cannot be determined
from blood-gas analysis.

PMID: 6666521  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1773. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1983 Dec;104(4):475-8.

Increased frequency of HLA-Cw4 in type 2 diabetes.

Groop L, Koskimies S, Pelkonen R, Tolppanen EM.

In order to investigate whether there is an association between the HLA system
and type 2 diabetes, we have determined HLA-A, B- and C-antigens in 227 patients 
with onset of diabetes between the ages of 35 and 70 years and compared them with
the HLA-antigen frequencies in Finnish blood donors. One hundred and sixty-eight 
patients (74%) were treated with diet or oral antidiabetic drugs (non-insulin
dependent), whereas 59 patients (26%) were treated with insulin
(insulin-dependent). The HLA-antigen Cw4 was found in 38.7% of the non-insulin
dependent patients (relative risk 2.67, p = 0.00005) and in 15.6% of the insulin 
dependent diabetics (relative risk 0.785 NS) compared with 19.1% in blood donors.
In addition, there was an increase in the frequency of HLA-Bw35 antigen among the
non-insulin dependent patients (relative risk 1.6, P = 0.007), which could be
explained by the known positive linkage disequilibrium between HLA-Bw35 and
HLA-Cw4. In insulin-dependent patients there was a decrease in the frequency of
HLA-B7 (relative risk 0.226, P = 0.001) and an increase in the frequencies of
HLA-B8 (relative risk 1.91, P = 0.031), B12 (relative risk 2.22, P = 0.01) and
B15 (relative risk 2.04, P = 0.019) compared with blood donors.CONCLUSION: these 
data provide evidence that genes in the HLA region may have some influence in
genetic susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. They further suggest that maturity
onset (type 2) diabetes is a heterogeneous disease in terms of HLA
antigens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6581663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1774. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1983 Dec;128(6):1024-9.

Effect of naloxone on the pulmonary vascular responses to graded levels of
intracranial hypertension in anesthetized sheep.

Peterson BT, Ross JC, Brigham KL.

We increased intracranial pressure (ICP) in anesthetized sheep for 3 h by
connecting the cisterna magna to an elevated reservoir of buffered saline. We
monitored systemic and pulmonary vascular pressures, pulmonary blood flow, and
the flow of lymph from the lungs. The volume and protein concentration of the
lymph were used to assess changes in lung vascular permeability-surface area.
Extravascular lung water was measured postmortem, and in vivo indicator dilution 
studies were used to measure permeability-surface area product (PS urea) of the
lung circulation for a small hydrophillic molecule (14C-urea) and extravascular
water volume (VH2O). These studies were done in 16 sheep with ICP raised to 0,
60, or 100 mmHg. Thirteen other sheep received naloxone before and during
elevation of ICP to 0, 60, or 100 mmHg. Elevation of ICP increased pulmonary
artery pressure (CONTROL: 16 +/- 3 cmH2O; ICP: 60 mmHg = 16 +/- 2 cmH2O; ICP: 100
mmHg = 23 +/- 2 cmH2O), cardiac output (
CONTROL: 2.7 +/- 0.1 L/min; ICP: 60 mmHg = 3.3 +/- 0.05, p less than 0.05; ICP:
100 mmHg = 5.3 +/- 1.0, p less than 0.05), lung lymph flow (
CONTROL: 94 +/- 8% baseline; ICP: 60 mmHg = 193 +/- 25% baseline, p less than
0.05; ICP: 100 mmHg = 285 +/- 38% baseline, p less than 0.05), PS urea (
CONTROL: 7.0 +/- 0.5 ml/s; ICP: 60 mmHg = 11.0 +/- 3.7 ml/s; ICP: 100 mmHg = 12.4
+/- 1.3 ml/s, p less than 0.05), and VH2O (CONTROL: 93 +/- 8% baseline; ICP: 60
mmHg = 112 +/- 6% of baseline; ICP: 100 mmHg = 129 +/- 13% of baseline, p less
than 0.05) proportional to the level of ICP. Sheep with ICP raised to 100 mmHg
had modestly increased lung water (pulmonary edema).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 6650974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1775. Aust Health Rev. 1983 Dec;6(5):103-5.

The urgency of restraint.

Oakes N.

INTRODUCTION: the environment in which we will be operating--ever-growing demand 
for services; developments in medicine. Some figures on expenditure trends. The
supply side: the imperfections of the market place; whose choice? The pricing
mechanism: capacity to pay: choice--again. Who pays? Fiscal accountability and
responsibility.

PMID: 10310678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1776. Eur Heart J. 1983 Dec;4(12):846-53.

Systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. A
cross-sectional echocardiographic study.

Ballester M, Rickards A, Rees S, McDonald L.

Different cross-sectional echocardiographic patterns of systolic anterior motion 
of the mitral valve (SAM) have been observed in patients with hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. chordae tendineae and/or the free edge of the mitral valve were
seen to be involved in some: SAM(c). The body of the mitral valve encroached upon
the left ventricular outflow tract in this movement in a second group: SAM(v).
Other patients did not show SAM. A study of 27 patients was performed to
investigate the relationship of these patterns of SAM to the subaortic gradient
as well as the prevalence and degree of mitral regurgitation. The absence of SAM 
correlated with no obstruction and 29% prevalence of mitral regurgitation. In
SAM(c), the mean gradient was 10 +/- 10 mmHg. (0-35 mmHg), and mitral
regurgitation involved 36% of the patients. In SAM(v) the mean gradient found was
81 +/- 37 mmHg (20-150), and 67% had mitral regurgitation. In situations where
mitral regurgitation was most prevalent its degree was greatest.IN CONCLUSION:
(1) chordal or leaflet participation in SAM is relevant to the presence and
degree of obstruction; (2) leaflet involvement usually implies severe
obstruction; (3) distortion of the mitral valve apparatus may contribute to the
genesis of mitral regurgitation.

PMID: 6686524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1777. Int J Cosmet Sci. 1983 Dec;5(6):277-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-2494.1983.tb00352.x.

Advances in topical corticosteroid therapy.

Michniak BB.

Author information: 
138 Jarrom Street, Leicester, LE2 7DF, U.K.

SYNOPSIS: Many skin preparations are used by the dermatologist, a large
proportion being based on corticosteroids. The relationship between the chemical 
structure of twenty corticosteroids and their ability to permeate freshly excised
hairless mouse skin was studied. It was found that increasing the 17-carbon side 
chain, including a fluoro at carbon 9, and the addition of 10% w/v urea,
diethyltoluamide or diethylbenzamide to the vehicle all increased skin
penetration. Of the twenty compounds studied, seventeen were new, and as yet
unreported. The present studies were also initiated to answer questions about the
usefulness of the hairless mouse for developing clinically relevant insights into
percutaneous absorption and for evaluating topical products intended for humans.

PMID: 19469995  [PubMed]


1778. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Dec;65(9):1319-27.

Bone histology in adults with aseptic necrosis. Histomorphometric evaluation of
iliac biopsies in seventy-seven patients.

Arlot ME, Bonjean M, Chavassieux PM, Meunier PJ.

We studied the bone histology by histomorphometric methods in transiliac
bone-biopsy specimens from seventy-seven adult patients with aseptic
osteonecrosis and normal kidney function. The trabecular bone volume, trabecular 
osteoid volume, trabecular osteoid surfaces, thickness index of osteoid seams,
total resorption surfaces, calcification rate, tetracycline-labeled surfaces, and
bone-formation rate at the basic multicellular unit level and at the tissue level
were determined. Histological evidence of osteomalacia was found in nine
patients, of whom four were alcoholics. In the remaining sixty-eight
patients--fifteen treated with corticosteroids, twenty-nine alcoholics, and
twenty-four who did not have any detectable etiological factor--a common
histomorphometric profile was found. This consisted morphologically of a
reduction in trabecular bone volume and in the thickness of osteoid seams, and
dynamically of a reduction in calcification rate and in total labeled surfaces.
All of these changes suggested a marked decrease in osteoblastic appositional
rate and in bone-formation rate at the cell and tissue levels. This could induce 
a healing defect of microfractures and thus facilitate subchondral
fractures.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This histological study indicated that non-apparent
bone disease--either osteoporosis or osteomalacia--may underlie aseptic
osteonecrosis in almost all patients, and be found even when blood and urinary
biochemical parameters, usually reflecting bone-remodeling, are normal. An
iliac-crest bone biopsy with static and dynamic histomorphometric study is the
appropriate method for detecting these abnormalities. These results are of
importance for understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying
osteonecrosis as well as its prevention and treatment.

PMID: 6361038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1779. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Dec;65(9):1314-8.

Comparison of different bone-biopsy techniques for qualitative and quantitative
diagnosis of metabolic bone diseases.

Faugere MC, Malluche HH.

In this study we evaluated different biopsy techniques for the quantitative study
of bone histology. Bone biopsies were done using an electric drill and a Jamshidi
needle after tetracycline double-labeling in patients with renal bone disease,
osteoporosis, or Paget's disease. Bone slides were stained with Masson-Goldner
stain and evaluated for quantitative static and dynamic parameters of bone
structure, formation, and resorption. Statistical evaluation of the differences
and correlations between histomorphometric parameters obtained from slides of
bone samples thirty-five millimeters long and five or three millimeters in
diameter revealed that three-millimeter samples were sufficient for qualitative
diagnosis but were not optimum for the quantitative evaluation of cellular
parameters of resorption and dynamic parameters of formation. A useful compromise
might be the use of a four-millimeter specimen obtained with the less invasive
technique that hitherto has been employed only for smaller samples.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: Several bone-biopsy techniques are available that provide bone samples
of different sizes. Knowledge of the smallest sample size that is sufficient for 
qualitative and quantitative diagnosis of metabolic bone diseases will help the
physician to select the least-invasive techniques without losing relevant
information.

PMID: 6361037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1780. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Dec;65(9):1220-31.

Chymopapain, chemonucleolysis, and nucleus pulposus regeneration.

Bradford DS, Cooper KM, Oegema TR Jr.

In the adult mongrel dog, in vivo injection of chymopapain into the
intervertebral disc resulted in disc-space narrowing at two weeks, with a
complete loss of proteoglycan (as indicated by safranin-O staining) from the
nucleus pulposus, the cartilaginous end-plates, and the annulus fibrosus. As
demonstrated by [35S]sulphate-labeling and proteoglycan isolation, the nucleus
pulposus retained the ability to synthesize proteoglycans, but these were
degraded by endogenous proteolytic activity. Three months after chymopapain
treatment the intervertebral disc showed an increase in height. There was a
return of intense safranin-O staining in the annulus and the cartilaginous
end-plates, and very prominently in the nucleus. The proteoglycans that were
present were recovered as aggregates, with the proteoglycan monomer being
slightly larger than in the controls. Six months after chymopapain treatment the 
intervertebral disc had increased further in height, and normal histology had
been restored. The chemical composition and physical properties of the
proteoglycans that were isolated from the nucleus pulposus were essentially the
same as those from the controls. These observations suggest that the nucleus can 
regenerate following the injection of chymopapain.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our
observations demonstrate that chymopapain has a profound but reversible effect on
the intervertebral disc. The radiographic narrowing of the intervertebral disc
following chymopapain injection correlates with the loss of proteoglycan content 
and structure. The restoration of normal disc height following chymopapain
injection is explained by reconstitution of the intervertebral disc with normal
proteoglycans. In experimental animals, chemonucleolysis with chymopapain appears
to be less likely than surgical excision to permanently alter the biochemistry of
the nucleus pulposus.

PMID: 6361035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1781. Laryngol Rhinol Otol (Stuttg). 1983 Dec;62(12):590-6.

[Electrodiagnostic and histochemical studies on the effect of electric
stimulation on the atrophy of denervated laryngeal muscles in animal
experiments].

[Article in German]

Martin F, Witt TN.

Electrodiagnostic and histometric investigations have been carried out on 56
adult male rabbits following unilateral paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal
nerve. Exponential current impulses were externally applied. The excitation
threshold was determined endoscopically and also described graphically in terms
of the excitation intensity as a function of time (I/t-curves). The diagnostic
results thus obtained permit determination of the corresponding excitation
parameters for therapy. The success of the therapy was evaluated from histometric
data on type I and type II fibres of the vocalis and the posterior cricoarytenoid
muscles.RESULTS: 1. The stimulation of denervated laryngeal muscles by external
application of exponential current impulses is selective. 2. The extent of the
neurogenous atrophy of denervated muscles following paralysis of the recurrent
nerve can be diagnosed electrically. 3. This atrophy could be significantly
reduced by proper choice of stimulation parameters within the time span of the
experiment (28 days).

PMID: 6672500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1782. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Dec;57(12):1881-93.

[Histopathological study of aging of the posterior portion of human cervical
vertebral bodies and discs--with special reference to the early ossification of
the posterior longitudinal ligament].

[Article in Japanese]

Honda H.

Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament ( OPLL ) of the cervical
spine is a disease causing spinal canal stenosis and, henceforth , spinal cord
compression. This ossification is found approximately in three percent of the
adult Japanese, but it is also found to be present among Chinese, Korean and
other South-East Asians, whereas the incidence among Caucasians was reported to
be significantly low. The etiology of this interesting ossification is still
unknown although multidisciplinary studies have been carried out in Japan in
recent years. The purpose of the present study is to find an early ossification
of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the cervical spine and to see its
relationship with other chronological changes of the surrounding
structures.MATERIAL AND METHOD: One hundred and forty-one cervical spinal columns
were obtained en bloc from C2 to C7 from the autopsied bodies at Juntendo
University Hospital and at the Tokyo Metropolitan Medical Examiners' Office.
There were 89 males and 52 females with a wide age distribution. A 66 year-old
male case with advanced continuous OPLL died at Juntendo University Hospital was 
added to the study. The specimens were either cross-sectioned or sagittally
sectioned, and studied soft-ray-roentgenologically and histopathologically.
RESULTS: There were specimens after the third decade of life showing
micro-ossification along the midline of the posterior aspect of the vertebral
body on cross-section as well as micro-ossification or hyperostosis adjacent to
the posterior corner of the vertebral body on sagittal section. These
micro-ossification or hyperostosis seemed to be a product of a physiological
aging process, but could be considered as a precursor of the OPLL . The
periosteum was well demonstrated on the posterior aspect of the vertebral body in
the first two decades of life, but it became inconspicuous with age. In the adult
spine there was no clear delineation between the deep layer of the posterior
longitudinal ligament and the fibrous layer of the periosteum . The cambium layer
looked absent on hematoxylin-eosin stain. However, on Giemsa stain there appeared
a thin layer which would present increased cellular activity between the body and
what appeared to be the fibrous layer of the periosteal. This layer was
considered to be a 'sleeping cambium layer' for which it was named 'latent
periostium layer (LPL)'.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6427366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1783. No Shinkei Geka. 1983 Dec;11(12):1287-95.

[Functional recovery following surgical removal of traumatic epidural
hematoma--factor analysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakagawa Y, Ohtsuka K, Abe H, Tsuru M, Tsunoda M, Koiwa M.

Factors contributing to functional recovery following evacuation of epidural
hematoma were analyzed in 53 subjects. Subjects were limited to the cases with
"pure" epidural hematoma. Fifty-three cases were classified into 3 groups based
on presence or absence, and duration of preaggravation period (PAP) following
occurrence of head trauma (Fig. 1). Level of consciousness at operation and at
PAP is summarised in Fig. 2. Major neurological signs at operation are summarized
in Table 1. Gradings of functional status were divided to 6 (Table 2). Gradings
of 53 subjects which were judged 1 month after removal of epidural hematoma are
summarized in Fig. 3.RESULTS: 1) As to outcome in relation to duration of
preaggravation period (PAP) and consciousness level at operation (Fig. 4): The
patients whose PAP was shorter and whose consciousness level at operation was
more severe, took outcome of lower (worse) gradings. 2) As to outcome in relation
to interval from the end of PAP to operation and PAP (Fig. 5): The patients whose
PAP are within 3 hours, took outcome of relatively good recovery only when
epidural hematoma was removed within 5.5 hours after the end of PAP. 3) As to
outcome in relation to interval from the end of PAP to operation and
consciousness level at operation (Fig. 6): The patients whose consciousness level
at operation was better than semicoma took good recovery when epidural hematoma
was evacuated within 5.5 hours after the end of PAP. This was right even in the
patients who presented with decerebrate posture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6669215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1784. No To Shinkei. 1983 Dec;35(12):1241-6.

[Rebound phenomenon of mannitol and glycerol: clinical studies].

[Article in Japanese]

Node Y, Yajima K, Nakazawa S.

A rebound phenomenon after infusion of hypertonic solution of mannitol and
glycerol on raised intracranial pressure was studied by epidural pressure
recordings for 65 patients. The mean age of the patients was 50 years with a
range of 29 to 73 years. The diagnoses of above patients were as follows; 29 were
cerebral aneurysms, 19 were brain tumors, 10 were hypertensive intracerebral
hemorrhages, 4 were cerebral contusions, 2 were arteriovenous malformations, and 
one was cerebral abscess. Four methods of infusion were performed. In group A,
0.5 g/kg of mannitol was infused within 15, 30 or 60 minutes. In group B, 1.0
g/kg of mannitol was infused within 30, 60 or 90 minutes. In group C, 0.5 g/kg of
glycerol in 5% fructose was infused within 30, 60 or 90 minutes. In group D, 1.0 
g/kg of glycerol in 5% fructose was infused within 60, 120 or 180 minutes. The
following observations were examined in all patients. (1) The occurrence of the
rebound phenomenon. (2) The rate of the raised intracranial pressure (ICP)
compared to the ICP before infusion of these hypertonic solutions. (3) The
duration of the rebound phenomenon.RESULTS: A rebound phenomenon was found 23% in
all patients, and 12% in the mannitol groups and 34% in the glycerol groups. The 
dose and the rate of mannitol infusion did not influence the occurrence of the
rebound phenomenon. In contrast, in the glycerol groups, the infusion method did 
influence the occurrence of the rebound phenomenon.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

PMID: 6422967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1785. Z Kardiol. 1983 Dec;72(12):711-7.

[Divergent time courses of ventricular vulnerability of the heart to ventricular 
tachycardias and ventricular fibrillation in the early necrosis stage of acute
experimental myocardial infarct].

[Article in German]

Gülker H, Thale J, Heuer H, Zurstegge KM, Bender F.

Early necrosis in acute experimental myocardial infarction is characterized by
severe ventricular dysrhythmias beginning approx. 6 hours after coronary artery
occlusion and persisting for 2-5 days. It was the aim of this study to
investigate the comparative changes in ventricular vulnerability to spontaneous
and stimulus-induced tachycardia and fibrillation during early necrosis 6-18
hours following acute coronary artery occlusion.RESULTS: 1) The thresholds for
repetitive extrasystoles and for ventricular fibrillation determined via
electrodes placed on to the endocardium of the right and left ventricle outside
of the ischemic area are within the normal range of the non-ischemic heart. 2)
Both stimulation thresholds increase significantly within the area of infarction 
and in many cases are not inducible any more after 18 hours of ischemia, whatever
amount of current is applied. 3) Sustained ventricular tachycardia can be induced
in about 30% of cases after an occlusion lasting approx. 6 hours and in about 80%
after an occlusion period of 18 hours. 4) Electrically induced ventricular
tachycardias differ from spontaneously occurring VT in so far as the former
appear to be due to a reentry mechanism, whereas the latter seem to be
"accelerated ventricular rhythms" and thus of focal origin. Our results
demonstrate that enhanced ventricular vulnerability during early necrosis in
acute myocardial infarction is predominantly due to ventricular tachycardia
rather than to ventricular fibrillation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6198813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1786. Brain Res. 1983 Nov 28;280(1):75-9.

Central nervous system effects of corticotropin releasing factor in the dog.

Brown MR, Fisher LA.

Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.)
increases mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR), while CRF given
intravenously decreases MAP and increases HR. CRF given i.c.v. elevates plasma
concentrations of vasopressin and catecholamines. Ganglionic blockade with
chlorisondamine prevents CRF-induced increases in MAP; the vasopressin
antagonist, [1-deaminopenicillamine,2-(O-methyl)tyrosine]-vasopressin does not
alter CRF-induced increases in MAP. In contrast to CRF, angiotensin II (A-II)
given i.c.v. increases MAP but decreases HR.IN CONCLUSION: (1) CRF elevation of
MAP and HR in dogs is dependent on an intact sympathetic nervous system, and (2) 
CRF and A-II have different CNS effects on cardiovascular function.

PMID: 6606481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1787. Acta Paediatr Scand. 1983 Nov;72(6):889-94.

Increased fractional excretion of phosphate and beta 2-microglobulin in
unilateral renal disease.

Aperia A, Wikstad I, Broberger O.

Following progressive nephron loss tubular reabsorption in the remaining nephrons
will fall to preserve solute and electrolyte excretion. We have examined the
fractional excretion (FE) of phosphate, sodium, beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2M)
and tubular glucose reabsorption (T glucose) in children with unilateral renal
disease to find 1) the threshold for this response and 2) whether intrinsic renal
mechanisms can elicit this response. Separate renal function studies were
performed using unilateral ureteral compression. Total glomerular filtration rate
(GFR) was 93.7 +/- 2.99 ml/1.73(m2)-1 X min-1, and 110.25 +/- 5.40 in control
children. GFR in the scarred kidney (SK) was 22.4 +/- 2.46 and in the
contralateral kidney (CIK) 67.2 +/- 4.60 ml X 1.73 (m2)-1 X min-1. The kidney
area was reduced in proportion to GFR in SK. FE phosphate and beta 2M were
significantly higher in SK than in CIK (sign test), but absolute values for FE
phosphate and beta 2M were not higher in SK than in control kidneys. FE sodium
and T glucose were the same in SK and CIK.CONCLUSION: Following moderate
unilateral reduction of GFR selective depression of tubular reabsorption can
occur without extrarenal impulses.

PMID: 6369868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1788. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1983 Nov;68(5):303-24.

Kidney function in lithium-treated patients. A literature survey.

Bendz H.

Twenty-three studies of the effect of lithium treatment on tubular and glomerular
function are reviewed. They include about 1,450 patients from a total population 
of more than 2,000. One hundred and thirty-two patients were kidney biopsied. In 
addition, two specific questions are reviewed: 1) Does combined treatment
lithium/neuroleptics affect the kidneys adversely? 2) Do different lithium
preparations or treatment schedules affect the kidneys differently?CONCLUSIONS:
In a small proportion of patients long-term lithium treatment causes
morphological changes of a tubulointerstitial type and partly irreversible
reduction of tubular function. Glomerular function is reduced secondary to
tubular atrophy. Combined treatment with neuroleptics does not increase the risk 
of kidney damage. Types of lithium preparation do not affect kidneys differently.
Multiple-dose schedules may be associated with a higher urinary output than
one-dose schedule. Reduced renal function may in the future become a problem in
an increasing number of patients.

PMID: 6139936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1789. Am J Physiol. 1983 Nov;245(5 Pt 1):F601-5.

Influence of acute potassium loading on renal phosphate transport in the rat
kidney.

Jaeger P, Bonjour JP, Karlmark B, Stanton B, Kirk RG, Duplinsky T, Giebisch G.

This study examined 1) whether potassium-induced depression of phosphate
excretion is a parathyroid hormone-dependent phenomenon, and 2) whether such
stimulation of tubular phosphate reabsorption capacity involves increased
phosphate reabsorption in the distal tubule. Potassium was infused into intact
rats (25 mumol X min-1 X kg-1) during stepwise addition of phosphate to the
infusion and led to a significant drop in phosphate excretion; this effect was
abolished in thyroparathyroidectomized (TPTX) animals. In intact rats the maximal
tubular Pi reabsorption per milliliter of glomerular filtrate (max TRPi/ml GF)
was significantly higher in the potassium group (2.54 +/- 0.06 mumol/ml GF)
compared with the control group (2.31 +/- 0.06 mumol/ml GF) (means +/- SE). In
TPTX rats no difference in max TRPi/ml GF was observed: 3.44 +/- 0.07 and 3.49
+/- 0.07 mumol/ml GF during potassium and sodium infusion, respectively.
Free-flow micropuncture was carried out on superficial distal tubules of intact
rats and fluid samples were analyzed for [3H]inulin and phosphorus (electron
microprobe). Phosphorus delivery into the distal tubule was similar in control
and potassium-loaded rats. Whereas net phosphorus reabsorption along the distal
tubule was absent in the control group, intravenous potassium administration
stimulated distal phosphorus reabsorption.CONCLUSION: potassium stimulates renal 
phosphate reabsorption capacity, an effect that is abolished after TPTX. The
potassium effect on phosphate occurs along the distal tubule.

PMID: 6638181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1790. Ann Surg. 1983 Nov;198(5):579-84.

Experience with the Nissen fundoplication for correction of gastroesophageal
reflux in infants.

Randolph J.

In the past 15 years at Children's Hospital in Washington, D.C., approximately
500 infants under 1 year of age have been evaluated because of symptomatic
gastroesophageal reflux. A contrast esophagogram will demonstrate reflux in the
majority of affected infants. However, this diagnostic method is not always
reliable. Timed monitoring of esophageal pH, and extended radionuclide scan even 
in infants can document accurately the frequency and character of episodic
reflux. Following diagnosis, most infants are treated by conservative therapy,
which includes the upright position. Of the 500 patients, 72 infants (14%) were
selected for operative correction using the Nissen fundoplication. The
indications for surgery in these infants with gastroesophageal reflux were: (A)
failure to thrive, (35); (B) chronic respiratory infection, (24); (C) apnea
spells, (8); and (D) esophagitis. One infant was found to have a stricture. In
these symptomatic patients, three had previous operative correction of esophageal
atresia, and two had congenital gastric dislocation in the chest.RESULTS: 61
excellent; six recurrences, of whom five are satisfactory after a second
operation; two lost to follow-up but doing well when last seen; three deaths from
causes unrelated to reflux. The selection of infants with gastroesophageal reflux
for surgical correlation is primarily based on life-threatening clinical effects.
The Nissen fundoplication has worked well in this group of infants.

PMCID: PMC1353127
PMID: 6639158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1791. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1983 Nov;16(3):181-92.

Uterine motility after post-partum application of sulprostone and other
oxytocics.

Baumgarten K, Schmidt J, Horvat A, Neumann M, Cerwenka R, Gruber W, Gödicke HD,
Grünberger W, Spona J.

With the introduction of prostaglandins to obstetrics another group of substances
was known to influence uterine motility also post partum. It was interesting to
study the effect of equal doses of synthetic prostaglandin E2 (sulprostone),
methergin and synthetic oxytocin on the so-called puerperal model in humans. By
transcervically introduced twin-catheters uterine motility was recorded after
uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery in 101 volunteers. Uterine motility was
recorded and evaluated according to the onset of the effect, its duration,
motility pattern and uterine activity. Maternal heart-rate was additionally
recorded similarly to the feto-maternal cardiotocogram. All substances were
applied by intramuscular injection. The following observations could be made: 1. 
Onset: sulprostone is effective in the shortest time, followed by oxytocin and
methergin. 2.DURATION: the most prolonged effect is noticed with methergin,
followed by sulprostone and syntocinon. 3. Motility pattern: the strongest effect
can be seen with sulprostone, followed by methergin and syntocinon. 4. Increase
of uterine motility was highest with sulprostone, followed by methergin and
oxytocin. 5. No side-effects on the maternal heart-rate could be found with any
of the tested substances. As a conclusion, sulprostone is recommended in the
treatment of severe bleeding post partum when an immediate and long-lasting
effect is to be achieved with one single substance.

PMID: 6662263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1792. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1983 Nov;57(5):958-62.

Hereditary resistance to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D: defective function of receptors
for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in cells cultured from bone.

Liberman UA, Eil C, Holst P, Rosen JF, Marx SJ.

The syndrome of rickets, alopecia, hypocalcemia, and high circulating levels of
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-(OH)2D) apparently is caused by resistance of
target tissues to 1,25-(OH)2D. To evaluate this, we cultured cells from explants 
of long bone of one patient with this syndrome and from a control without any
preexisting disorder of mineral metabolism. The cultured cells showed
morphological features of fibroblasts but contained alkaline phosphatase activity
without detectable acid phosphatase activity, indicating an osteoblastic origin
for some or all of the cultured cells. Receptors for 1,25-(OH)2D were assessed by
three methods: high affinity uptake of hormone in nuclei of dispersed cells, high
affinity binding in hypertonic extracts (herein termed cytosol) from cells, and
sedimentation velocity of bound [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 in extracts of cell nuclei. With
cells cultured from bone of the normal control, receptors for 1,25-(OH)2D
exhibited properties indistinguishable from those found with cultured skin
fibroblasts. With cells cultured from bone of the patient with resistance to
1,25-(OH)2D, high affinity uptake of 1,25-(OH)2D into nuclei was unmeasurable,
but high affinity binding of hormone with cytosol was normal; these abnormal
findings also were indistinguishable from abnormal findings obtained with
fibroblasts cultured from skin of that patient.IN CONCLUSION: 1) Cells cultured
from explants of human bone showed morphological features of fibroblasts but
retained a marker enzyme characteristic of osteoblasts. Significant admixture of 
osteoblast-like cells with fibroblasts was possible. 2) Cells cultured from bone 
of a patient with familial resistance to 1,25-(OH)2D exhibit a defect in vitamin 
D metabolism, indistinguishable from the defect observed with cells cultured from
skin of the same patient.

PMID: 6311866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1793. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1983 Nov;57(5):1048-53.

Pancreatic somatostatinoma: abundance of somatostatin-28(1-12)-like
immunoreactivity in tumor and plasma.

Patel YC, Ganda OP, Benoit R.

In the present study we characterized and compared the relative amounts of the
different molecular forms of somatostatin-14 like immunoreactivity (S-14 LI) and 
of somatostatin-28(1-12) like immunoreactivity (S-28(1-12) LI) in extracts of
tumor and peripheral plasma of a patient with a pancreatic somatostatinoma.
Tissue and plasma were chromatographed on Sephadex G-50 columns equilibrated with
6 M urea. Immunoreactivity in the eluting fractions was assayed with two
separate, region specific RIAs using antibodies R149 (S-14 LI) and S309
(S-28(1-12)LI). RIA R149 recognizes the 6-8 and 14 regions of the S-14 sequence
and detects S-14, S-28, and prosomatostatin, an approximately 14,000 mol wt
precursor for the two peptides. RIA S309 recognizes the 2-11 segment of S-28 and 
reacts with S-28, S-28(1-12), and higher mol wt S-28(1-12) LI but not S-14. Total
tumor S-14 LI was 190 pmol/mg protein and consisted of three peaks of
immunoreactivity of apparent 14,000 mol wt (14K S-14 LI), 3,200 mol wt (3.2K
corresponding to S-28) and 1,600 mol wt (1.6K corresponding to S-14). The three
peaks comprised, respectively, 7%, 57%, and 36% of total S-14 LI. Total tumor
S-28(1-12) LI was 594 pmol/mg protein and eluted as four major peaks of
immunoreactivity as follows: peak I (mol wt 15,000, 10% of total S-28(1-12) LI); 
peak II (mol wt 8,000, 20% of S-28(1-12) LI), peak III (corresponding to S-28,
19% of S-28(1-12) LI); peak IV (corresponding to S-28(1-12), approximately 50% of
total S-28(1-12) LI). Total plasma concentration of S-14 LI was 714 pM, being
made up of the three peaks found in tumor but in the following relative amounts
(14K S-14 LI, 22%; 3.2K, 29%; 1.6 K, 49%). Plasma S-28(1-12) LI was 4 times
higher (2879 pM) than S-14 LI and contained immunoreactivity corresponding to
each of the four peaks found in the tumor.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The tumor and plasma
concentrations of S-28(1-12) LI were greater than that of S-14 LI. 2) Both tumor 
and plasma S-14 LI and S-28 LI were heterogeneous and comprised species
corresponding not only to S-14 but also S-28, S-28(1-12), prosomatostatin, and
other higher mol wt forms of S-28.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6137494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1794. Jpn J Antibiot. 1983 Nov;36(11):3291-301.

[Clinical studies of intravenous drip infusion of micronomicin. 1. Absorption and
excretion].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe M, Koyama M.

Pharmacokinetics of MCR administered by 1 hour intravenous drip infusion were
studied in healthy volunteers by two-compartment model. In 120 mg-dosage group (n
= 3) studies were made by single administration, and in 60 mg-dosage group (n =
4) were administered twice daily and continued until a total of 9 doses.RESULTS: 
When MCR was administered in a 60 mg dosage, its Cmax was 4.3 +/- 0.3
micrograms/ml (mean +/- S.D.) after the 1st dose and 3.7 +/- 0.4 micrograms/ml
after the 9th dose, while it was 8.8 +/- 1.0 micrograms/ml when the dosage was
120 mg. It should be noted that in the case of repeated dosing with 60 mg, serum 
levels just before administration were always below the analytical limit. The
mean of T 1/2 was 1.69 +/- 0.14 hours, remaining stable at all determination. The
kinetic parameters that showed different values between determinations performed 
after the 1st and 9th 60 mg doses were V1 (0.107 vs 0.164 L/kg) and Kel (1.02 vs 
0.68 hr-1). This was also the case with comparison of 2 different dosage groups
(60 mg 1st vs 120 mg; V1: 0.107 vs 0.135 L/kg, Kel: 1.02 vs 0.72 hr-1). There was
no evidence indicative of side effect of MCR.
DISCUSSION: The above results demonstrated that Cmax and other kinetic parameters
were little influenced by whether MCR was administered by intravenous drip
infusion or by intramuscular injection. There was a little larger difference in
AUC between those 2 routes of administration but the differences seemed
negligible when the same dosage was used. Pharmacokinetic studies are to be
continued in subjects whose renal function is impaired in different ways to
establish the optimum dosage regimen for MCR.

PMID: 6674542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1795. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Nov;57(11):1773-86.

[Experimental study on the vulnerability of the peripheral nerve].

[Article in Japanese]

Nemoto K.

Compression neuropathy can occur simultaneously at dual points on a nerve, but
the details of such lesions are still unknown. An experimental study was
performed in order to investigate the vulnerability of the peripheral nerve in
the "double crush" situation. Materials and Methods The sciatic nerves of 46
adult dogs were used. Compression was applied by special devices, and the
compression force was 15 g (27.6 mmHg). The animals were divided into three
groups. Group 1: One device was applied to the sciatic nerve 3 cm distal to the
sciatic tuberculum. Group 2: Two devices were applied simultaneously with a 2 cm 
interval. Group 3: Two devices were applied at the same sites as in Group 2, but 
the second was applied three weeks after the first. These three groups were
followed electrophysiologically up to eight or ten weeks postoperatively, at
which time histological studies were undertaken. Results Electrophysiological
studies: In Group I, complete conduction block was never induced. Mean motor
nerve conduction velocity (M.N.C.V.) was 39% of the preoperative value at three
weeks and increased slightly at six weeks. In Group 2, complete conduction block 
was induced in 50% at six weeks. Mean M.N.C.V. was 34% of the preoperative value 
at three weeks, and there was no significant change after this time. In Group 3, 
complete conduction block was induced in 50% at five weeks after the second
operation. Mean M.N.C.V. was reduced to 14% of the preoperative value at three
weeks after the second operation.HISTOLOGY: In Group 1, the number of large
myelinated fibers was reduced at the site of compression and in the distal
segment. Mean values for the diameter of the fibers distal to the compression
site were shifted to the left when compared with the controls. In Groups 2 and 3,
severer changes were noticed, especially in the segment distal to the site of the
second compression. Conclusion Subclinical neuropathy was induced by a
compression force of 15 g, and it was considered to be axonostenosis . The nerve 
had been compressed in the proximal region, became vulnerable to an additional
compression trauma in the distal region. Even complete conduction block could be 
induced under such circumstances, and it was considered to be as axonocachexia . 
Impairment of axonal flow should be considered as a causes of the
vulnerability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6676393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1796. Psychiatr Prax. 1983 Nov;10(6):209-16.

[Sectoring of a university clinic].

[Article in German]

Klusmann D, Ibes K, Gross J.

In 1980 the psychiatric clinic of the University of Hamburg took charge of a
catchment area within the city of Hamburg. From this year on the clinic decided
to provide half of its in-patient and day clinic capacity (that is 71 beds and 10
day clinic places) for a population of 139,000 living in this region. The effects
of this decision are discussed on three levels: - changes in the patient
population - opinions and attitudes of the clinic personnel - implications for
the organizational structureRESULTS: The proportion of in-patients from the
catchment area increased from 20% to 45% due to the clinic taking charge of this 
region. This increase did not much change the characteristics of the total
in-patient population admitted to the clinic, except for a shift towards more
older patients and more patients with a diagnosis of dementia or organic
psychosis. Around two thirds of the clinic personnel held a predominantly
positive view of the clinic's decision to establish a catchment area. Contrary to
some hopes the internal structure of the clinic did not change much in response
to its newly acquired responsibility for the catchment area. Nevertheless a
period of one year seems too short for such changes to occur.

PMID: 6665088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1797. Z Alternsforsch. 1983 Nov-Dec;38(6):473-8.

Hands and old age.

Dénes Z.

The author publishes the results of examining the hands of 100 old subjects. The 
paper contains the impressions obtained by inspection and palpation (i.e. by
non-invasive procedures) on the parallel nature of the senile degenerative
symptoms and the psychosomatic status of the old subject.CONTROL: examination of 
the hands of 100 middle-aged persons. It has been found that a pathological
symptom absolutely typical and specific of old age cannot in itself be evaluated,
but the simultaneous presence of a number of degenerative cases points to the
biological aging of the chronologically old subjects. The subjects of inspection 
are: turgor of the skin of the hand, finger-nails, pathological pigmentations,
vascularization under the skin, muscular atrophy, arthritic changes and hand
tremor.

PMID: 6659576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1798. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 1983 Oct;27(5):369-75.

The value of variables of disseminated intravascular coagulation in the diagnosis
of adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Modig J, Borg T, Wegenius G, Bagge L, Saldeen T.

In an investigation on 19 patients with traumatic (n = 11) and septic (n = 8)
shock, at risk of developing adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), various 
coagulation and fibrinolysis variables and also blood gases and chest x-ray were 
monitored. Eight patients developed ARDS - two after traumatic shock and six
following septic shock.LABORATORY FINDINGS: the conventional disseminated
intravascular coagulation variables (fibrinogen, platelet counts, activated
partial thromboplastin time, ethanol gelation test, thrombotest, normotest and
fibrin degradation products) could not discriminate between ARDS and non-ARDS
patients, but showed an essentially similar reaction pattern in these two groups.
Antithrombin-III and plasminogen levels were significantly lower in patients with
ARDS, while factor VIII-related antigen levels were significantly higher in ARDS 
than in non-ARDS patients.
CLINICAL DATA: patients with septic shock run a significantly greater risk of
developing ARDS (6 of 8) than those with traumatic shock (2 of 11; P less than
0.02). Furthermore, the onset of ARDS after septic shock seems to occur in a more
rapid way, while ARDS following traumatic shock develops more gradually. Early
ventilator treatment with positive end expiratory pressure counteracts the
classical radiographic picture of ARDS with bilateral alveolar densities.

PMID: 6637363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1799. Anaesthesist. 1983 Oct;32(10):498-500.

[Erosion hemorrhage from an esophago-aortic fistula in congenital anomaly of the 
thoracic aorta as a fatal complication of a stomach tube].

[Article in German]

Jungck E, Püschel K.

A 6 year old boy was admitted to ICU because of severe polytrauma. He was
ventilated for 4 weeks using a nasotracheal tube (high-volume-low-pressure cuff) 
and fed by nasogastric tube for 6 weeks. After this time severe haemorrhage from 
the oesophagus occurred, caused by an oesophago-aortic fistula. Bleeding could be
stopped by a Sengstaken-Blakemore-tube. The child died during emergency
thoracotomy as a result of ventricular fibrillation after clamping of the aorta. 
Autopsy revealed a malformation of the aortic arch (type II B 4a according to
Kirklin and Clagett 1950). This vascular ring had been the site of a pressure
necrosis of the oesophagus due to the nasogastric tube. Finally an erosion of the
aortic malformation (a. lusoria) had been the result.CONCLUSIONS: Malformation of
the aortic arch sometimes can be suspected by x-ray of the chest: right-sided
shadow of the ascending aorta. If severe arterial bleeding from the oesophagus
occurs, one should think of this malformation. A Sengstaken-Blakemore-tube can be
a useful emergency method for temporary stopping of haemorrhage.

PMID: 6650804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1800. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Oct;65(8):1134-43.

Biplane radiographic measurements of reversible displacement (including clinical 
loosening) and migration of total joint replacements.

Green DL, Bahniuk E, Liebelt RA, Fender E, Mirkov P.

We studied nineteen total knee replacements and thirty-three total hip
replacements with simultaneous biplane radiography to measure in vivo micromotion
at the cement-bone interface. Spherical cobalt-chromium markers were embedded in 
the cement and cortical bone. Relative motion of the cement-markers was measured 
with respect to the markers in the cortical bone. Reversible displacement
(relative motion during a change from non-weight-bearing to weight-bearing) and
migration (relative motion over time from one non-weight-bearing study to
another) were calculated. The resolution of the measuring system was 0.2
millimeter. The range for symptomatic reversible displacement was 0.4 to 4.5
millimeters, while that for asymptomatic reversible displacement was 0.3 to 1.9
millimeters. All reversible displacement of less than 0.4 millimeter was
asymptomatic. Migration of as much as 2.1 millimeters occurred without
concomitant reversible displacement. All radiolucent lines correlated with
measured reversible displacement. Half of the patients who were evaluated two
weeks postoperatively had measurable reversible displacement.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: 
Our findings were based on a small series from a selected population. The
incidence of measured reversible displacement (75 per cent) was based on in vivo 
techniques and included symptomatic and asymptomatic reversible displacement;
therefore, it was higher than the incidence of clinical loosening (9.6 per cent
in our series). Simultaneous biplane radiography may become an important adjunct 
in the postoperative management of patients with a total joint replacement.

PMID: 6630257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1801. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Oct;65(8):1127-33.

The effects of surgical procedures on the blood supply to the femoral head.

Whiteside LA, Lange DR, Capello WR, Fraser B.

We have studied the effects of surgical procedures on the blood supply to the
femoral head in adult dogs. The blood supply to normal adult canine femoral heads
and osteoarthritic femoral heads was assessed by microvascular injection
techniques and by measurement of the rate of blood flow by the hydrogen-washout
technique. Circulation to the femoral head in the mature dog normally is
dependent on retinacular vessels. Vascular anastomoses between the epiphysis and 
the metaphysis are generally not larger than capillary size. Reaming the femoral 
head does not devascularize the bone unless the retinacular vessels are
disturbed. Stripping of the retinaculum, or combined reaming of the femoral head 
and stripping of the retinaculum, devascularized the femoral head in adult dogs
with normal femoral heads. In the osteoarthritic hips, vascular anastomoses
developed between the epiphysis and the metaphysis, so that stripping the
retinaculum did not devascularize the femoral head. However, the rate of blood
flow was decreased after combined reaming and retinacular stripping.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: In the non-arthritic hip or in one with early arthritis, the
retinacular vessels are of primary importance to circulation to the femoral head.
Damage to these vessels during surgery will lead to osteonecrosis in a high
percentage of patients. The formation of vascular anastomoses between the
epiphysis and the metaphysis during the development of osteoarthritis may make
the arthritic femoral head less vulnerable. However, care should be taken to
preserve retinacular vessels, since in this study the rate of blood flow was
decreased by reaming the femoral head and stripping the retinaculum.

PMID: 6630256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1802. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Oct;65(8):1125-6.

Corrosion of titanium/cobalt-chromium alloy couples.

Kummer FJ, Rose RM.

Because of the increasing use of dissimilar metal combinations in the human body,
we undertook an in vitro study to determine the compatibility and tendency to
accelerate crevice corrosion of galvanic couples of cobalt-chromium alloy with
either titanium, titanium alloy, or stainless steel. We employed an
electrochemical open-circuit potential measurement test and a potentiostatic
passive film-corrosion measurement test. The results demonstrated that the
chromium alloy/stainless-steel couple was unstable. The cobalt-chromium
alloy/titanium alloy couple was stable.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Cobalt-chromium alloys
should not be used in combination with stainless steel but may be used in
combination with titanium alloy. All usage of metal couples should be approached 
with the utmost caution.

PMID: 6630255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1803. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1983 Oct;57(4):803-11.

Rickets and alopecia with resistance to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D: two different
clinical courses with two different cellular defects.

Balsan S, Garabedian M, Liberman UA, Eil C, Bourdeau A, Guillozo H, Grimberg R,
Le Deunff MJ, Lieberherr M, Guimbaud P, Broyer M, Marx SJ.

Two unrelated patients, aged 22 months and 31 months, with alopecia and rickets
resistant to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-(OH)2D] (vitamin D-dependency type II)
presented with similar biochemical and radiologic features. They were treated
with large doses of vitamin D3 derivatives [25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-(OH)D3),
1,25-(OH)2D3, and 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3] for 28 months and 6 yr,
respectively. In both patients, serum 1,25-(OH)2D levels remained high
(approximately 10- to 100-fold normal) during the different therapeutic regimens.
Circulating 1,25-(OH)2D and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels at various stages of 
the disease suggested in these children disturbances in the regulation of
25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) 1 alpha- and 24-hydroxylase systems. In one child, 
all therapeutic trials were unsuccessful. Studies of her cultured skin
fibroblasts showed low capacity (10% normal) for saturable (presumably receptor
mediated) nuclear uptake of tritiated 1,25-(OH)2D3; the uptake process of nucleus
associated 1,25-(OH)2D3 was normal in apparent affinity for 1,25-(OH)2D3 and in
sedimentation velocity of nucleus-associated hormone. In the second child,
correction of biochemical abnormalities, healing of rickets, and catch-up growth 
were obtained during similar therapeutic trials up to the age of 6 yr when a
relapse occurred. This relapse has persisted for 2 yr in spite of similar or
higher circulating concentrations of 25-(OH)D and 1,25-(OH)2D than those obtained
previously when she was responsive to therapy. In her cultured skin fibroblasts, 
saturable high affinity nuclear uptake of 1,25(OH)2D was unmeasurable.IN
CONCLUSION: 1) distinct patterns of clinical response can occur in patients with 
the syndrome of vitamin D-dependency type II, and can be associated with
differing abnormalities in interaction of 1,25-(OH)2D3 with cultured skin
fibroblasts; 2) aggravation of the resistance to 1,25-(OH)2D3 may occur during
long term therapy in some patients.

PMID: 6309886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1804. J Surg Res. 1983 Oct;35(4):332-9.

The relationship between global myocardial ischemia, left ventricular function,
myocardial redox state, and high energy phosphate profile. A phosphorous-31
nuclear magnetic resonance study.

Whitman G, Kieval R, Wetstein L, Seeholzer S, McDonald G, Harken A.

The onset of global myocardial ischemia was related to mechanical function
(intraventricular pressure), cellular redox state (NADH fluorophotography), and
high energy profile (phosphorous-31 nuclear magnetic resonance). Ten rabbit
hearts were excised and perfused on a modified Langendorff apparatus (37 degrees 
C; pO2 480 Torr). Developed pressure and positive and negative dp/dt were
determined at control, 1-10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 sec of acute global ischemia.
NADH fluorophotographs were taken at control, 1-10, 15, 20, 30, 60 sec, and 5,
10, and 30 min. P-31 NMR spectra in 14 guinea pig hearts under identical
conditions were obtained at control, 1, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 60 min of acute global
ischemia. LV contractility diminished within 1 sec (P less than 0.01) of ischemia
and dropped to less than 35% of control by 1 min. Reduction of mitochondria was
detected by epicardial NADH fluorophotography at 2 sec of ischemia. Cellular pH
diminished 0.3 pH units by 5 min. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration
remained at control levels while phosphocreatine (PCr) dropped to 63 +/- 8.5% of 
control by 1 min of ischemia.CONCLUSIONS: After the onset of global ischemia (1) 
mitochondrial electron transport ceases by 2 sec; (2) acidosis develops
immediately; (3) LV contractility diminishes by 1 sec; (4) ATP concentration
appears to be buffered by PCr, and is dissociated from myocardial function.

PMID: 6621028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1805. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Oct;35(10):1749-58.

[Steroid metabolism in fetal membrane].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishimoto S, Hirato K, Saitoh H, Yanaihara T, Nakayama T.

In vitro tissue culture and incubation studies were undertaken to study the
enzymatic activities for steroidogenesis in human fetal membrane.MATERIALS AND
METHODS: Human fetal membrane obtained at term was separated to reflected
amnion(RA), placental amnion(PA), chorion laeve(C) and decidua(D). I) Except for 
D, 5 x 5cm2 of the tissue were cultured in MEM medium with 10% FCS for 8 days. At
steroid tracers, 14C-dehydroepiandrosterone(DHA), or 14C-DHA-sulfate(DHA-S) was
added and half of the medium was changed every 2 days. II) 800 x g Cell free
homogenate was incubated with radioactive DHA-S, pregnenolone-S(P-S) and
estrone-S(E-S). Radioactive metabolites in the medium were extracted and
identified.
RESULTS: Sulfatase activity was found not only in D and C but also in RA and PA. 
The accumulated products of DHA-S to DHA increased as the number of cultured days
increased. Sulfokinase and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activities for
DHA was also found when PA was cultured. From the results of the kinetic studies 
on incubation, E-S showed the highest affinity for sulfatase in all tissue.
Kinetic studies for sulfatase activity in RA demonstrated that Km values for E-S 
and DHA-S were 33 and 66 microM, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report to demonstrate the activity of sulfokinase
in RA and that of sulfatase in amnion membrane. These results provide further
information on the function of fetal membrane which seems to play an important
role in the transport and metabolism of steroids in the feto-placental
compartment during pregnancy.

PMID: 6226754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1806. No To Shinkei. 1983 Oct;35(10):975-81.

[Changes in CBF pattern after bypass surgery studied by CT with Xe enhancement].

[Article in Japanese]

Tamura A, Segawa H, Nakagomi T, Yoshimasu N, Kimura K, Ueda Y, Eguchi T, Sano K.

Using a new method for rCBF measurement by serial CT scanning with
non-radioactive xenon enhancement, CBF was measured before and/or after
microsurgical anastomosis in five cases of focal cerebral ischemia.MATERIALS AND 
METHODS: Studies were carried out on 2 cases of MCA occlusion, 2 of IC occlusion,
and 1 of "Moyamoya" disease. CBF was measured both before and after surgery in 4 
cases, and the remaining case was measured after anastomosis. Pre-operative CBF
was measured 1.4 +/- 0.5 months after the onset and post-operative CBF was 2 +/- 
1 months after surgery. While 50 to 70% non-radioactive xenon was inhaled for 25 
min and then discontinued, serial CT scanning was carried out every 3 min. K-map 
(clearance rate), lambda-map (partition coefficient), and CBF-map were displayed 
on CRT as images of each value.
RESULTS: In all cases, initial pre-operative CBF decreased not only in the
ipsilateral hemisphere, but also in the contralateral hemisphere. Especially in
the major stroke cases, CBF reduction in the low density areas seen in CT was
more than 75% of normal values. After microsurgical anastomosis, CBF increased in
both hemispheres. In two cases of reversible ischemic attacks without any change 
in CT, the CBF markedly increased in central areas of ischemia and the CBF values
became higher than normal value, that is hyperemia. On the contrary, in the
central areas of the major stroke cases, that is, the low density areas in CT,
CBF was still very low (under 25% of normal value) after anastomosis. However, in
these cases, marked hyperemia was seen in the surrounding area of ischemic focus.

PMID: 6651982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1807. Acta Astronaut. 1983 Sep;10(9):657-61.

Cardiovascular effects of simulated zero-gravity in humans.

Bonde-Petersen F(1), Suzuki Y, Sadamoto T, Christensen NJ.

Author information: 
(1)August Krogh Institute, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Head-down and head-up [correction of heat-up] tilted bedrest (5 degrees) and head
out water immersion (HOWI) for 6 hr were compared.PARAMETERS: Cardiac output
(rebreathing method), blood pressure (arm cuff), forearm blood flow (venous
occlusion plethysmography), total peripheral (TPR), and forearm vascular (FVR)
resistances, Hct, Hb, relative plasma volume (PV) changes, and plasma
catecholamines (single-isotope assay). During HOWI there was as expected a
decrement in TPR, FVR, Mean arterial pressure (MAP, from 100 to 80 mmHg), Hct,
and PV, and--as a new finding--catecholamines, which were 30-50% lower compared
with both +5 and -5 degrees bedrest. During head down tilt, MAP was elevated (to 
100-110 mmHg) and catecholamines did not fall, while TPR and EVR slowly decreased
over 6 hr. HOWI is a stronger stimulus than -5 degrees bedrest, probably because 
HOWI elevates central venous pressure more markedly emptying the peripheral
veins, while bedrest permits a distension of veins, which induces an increase in 
sympathetic nervous activity.

PMID: 11541561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1808. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Sep;65(7):948-57.

The effects of indirect blunt trauma on adult canine articular cartilage.

Donohue JM, Buss D, Oegema TR Jr, Thompson RC Jr.

In order to determine the effect of subfracture loads on articular cartilage, we 
impacted twelve adult canine patellofemoral joints utilizing a drop-tower with
two different force-levels. The joints were examined with light and electron
microscopy at two, four, and six weeks after impaction. In ten additional animals
a single knee was impacted and they were analyzed biochemically at similar
time-periods, using the contralateral joint as a control. In all impacted
specimens changes were observed in the zone of calcified cartilage, represented
by an increase in cellular clones, vascular invasion, and proteoglycan content of
the matrix. Ultrastructural evaluation of the superficial and deep radial zones
of the articular cartilage revealed loss of the cellular processes and
territorial matrices of chondrocytes in both layers. Ruthenium-red staining of
impacted samples revealed a 40 per cent decrease in proteoglycan associated with 
collagen fibers in the extraterritorial matrix. An increase in collagen-fiber
width was observed in the four and six-week groups. The earliest changes in
articular cartilage included activation of the zone of calcified cartilage as
well as ultrastructural alterations in the superficial and radial zones.
Biochemical analysis revealed an increase in water content and hexuronic acid at 
two weeks. These changes occurred at a subfracture level in the absence of
surface disruption.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These animal experiments indicate that
adult articular cartilage may show significant alterations in its histological,
biochemical, and ultrastructural characteristics without disruption of the
articular surface. This model of articular cartilage "contusion" may represent a 
corollary to the joint damage that is observed following direct blunt trauma
transmitted across articular surfaces without radiographic evidence of fracture. 
The possibility that this form of injury may be the precursor of chondromalacic
changes in patellar or femoral cartilage merits further study.

PMID: 6885875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1809. J Clin Invest. 1983 Sep;72(3):882-92.

Insulin resistance in uremia. Characterization of lipid metabolism in freshly
isolated and primary cultures of hepatocytes from chronic uremic rats.

Caro JF, Lanza-Jacoby S.

We have studied the mechanism(s) of hyperlipidemia and liver insulin sensitivity 
in a rat model of severe chronic uremia (U). Basal lipid synthesis was decreased 
in freshly isolated hepatocytes from U when compared with sham-operated ad
lib.-fed controls (alfC). Basal lipid synthesis in pair-fed controls (pfC) was in
between U and alfC. Similarly, the activity of liver acetyl CoA carboxylase,
fatty acid synthetase, citrate cleavage enzyme, malate dehydrogenase, and
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was diminished in U. Muscle and adipose tissue 
lipoprotein lipase was also decreased. Insulin stimulated lipid synthesis in
freshly isolated hepatocytes from alfC. Hepatocytes from U and pfC were resistant
to this effect of insulin. To ascertain if the insulin resistance in U was due to
starvation (chow intake 50% of alfC) or to uremia itself, the U and pfC were
intragastrically fed an isocaloric diet via a Holter pump the last week of the
experimental period. Hepatocytes from orally fed U and pfC were also cultured for
24 h in serum-free medium. While freshly isolated and cultured U hepatocytes
remained insulin resistant, those from pfC normalized, in vivo and in vitro, when
they were provided with enough nutrients.CONCLUSIONS: (a) Hyperlipidemia in
uremia is not due to increased synthesis, but to defect(s) in clearance. (b)
Insulin does not stimulate lipid synthesis in uremia. This finding, along with
our recent demonstration that insulin binding and internalization are not
decreased in the uremic liver, suggests that a post-binding defect(s) in the
liver plays an important role in the mechanism(s) of insulin resistance in
uremia. (c) Cultured hepatocytes from uremic rats remain insulin resistant. This 
quality renders these cells useful in studying the postinsulin binding events
responsible for the insulin-resistant state in the absence of complicating
hormonal and substrate changes that occur in vivo.

PMCID: PMC1129253
PMID: 6350367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1810. Sem Hop. 1983 Sep 1;59(29-30):2089-95.

[Role of cosmetics in environmental carcinogenesis].

[Article in French]

Riboulet-Delmas G.

Cosmetics, which have been used for millenaries, have undergone a dramatic
development since the last war. Conjointly with this development, cosmetology has
entered a new, scientific, phase. A few facts will enable us to define the role
of carcinogens in environmental carcinogenesis: first, by trying to determine
what protection is given to the consumer against the carcinogenic risk; then, by 
delineating the protection provided by sunscreen agents against skin carcinomas
induced by sun. Protection provided to consumers: physicochemical
characteristics; Ames test for screening; animal experimentation; epidemiological
studies; follow-up of products. Prevention of UV-dependent skin cancer; induction
of skin tumors by sun; prevention. Individual factors which modulate these risks:
Two examples: permeability of the psoriatic skin; morphotypes and sun.CONCLUSION:
Given the present state of our knowledge, it seems inconceivable to achieve
stricter scientific standards before marketing a product. One step is, and always
will be, lacking for the evaluation of the noxiousness of a substance, i.e. its
large scale, longterm evaluation in man, with allowances for biologic
inequalities. This underscores the value of producer's daily vigilance, a
vigilance which in fact concerns both the producer and the consumer.

PMID: 6312578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1811. Undersea Biomed Res. 1983 Sep;10(3):169-92.

Central nervous system reactions during heliox and trimix dives to 51 ATA, DEEP
EX 81.

Vaernes R, Hammerborg D, Ellertsen B, Peterson R, Tønjum S.

Two groups of divers were compressed to 500 msw with heliox (n = 3) and trimix (n
= 3). They were followed with repeated neuropsychological and neurological tests 
during compression, at stable intermediate depths, and at 500 msw. For the heliox
group there was a marked increase in tremor and EEG slow waves and reduction in
handgrip strength. For the trimix group the tremor increase did not occur, but
the EEG changes were the same as in the heliox group. On motor tests only the
trimix group showed impaired finger dexterity and manual dexterity. The same
occurred for fine visuomotor coordination, but both groups had increased
intentional tremor. On cognitive tests the same difference occurred. The trimix
group was markedly impaired in reasoning and long-term memory, while only a mild 
impairment was found in the heliox group. Dizziness and other symptoms of high
pressure nervous syndrome (HPNS) occurred in both groups.CONCLUSION: There were
marked HPNS effects during compression for both groups. Only tremor was inhibited
by the nitrogen. In addition, the trimix group was impaired because of nitrogen
narcosis. These data indicated that 10% nitrogen did not inhibit HPNS effects
during compression to 500 msw, but the considerable differences between subjects 
shows that susceptibility to compression must be an important area for future
research.

PMID: 6636343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1812. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1983 Aug;103(4):446-50.

The role of prolactin in the inhibitory action of bromocriptine on growth hormone
secretion in acromegaly.

Lamberts SW, Klijn JG, van Vroonhoven CC, Stefanko SZ, Liuzzi A.

Bromocriptine treatment results in clinical improvement and inhibition of plasma 
GH levels in only part of the acromegalic patients. The possible role of the
simultaneous presence of Prl and GH in GH-secreting pituitary adenomas was
investigated with regard to the inhibitory action of bromocriptine on GH
secretion and the paradoxical increase of GH release in reaction to TRH.
Surgically obtained pituitary tumour tissue from 35 consecutive acromegalic
patients was studied immunohistochemically. In 21 patients no Prl was present in 
the tumour tissue. These patients had normal plasma Prl levels. In the other 14
patients Prl was present in the tumour tissue. Hyperprolactinaemia was found in
10 of these 14 patient. Plasma GH levels from 2 till 10 h after the
administration of 2.5 mg bromocriptine measured before operation were
significantly more suppressed in the patients with mixed GH/Prl-containing than
in those with pure GH-containing pituitary adenomas, being 38 +/- 4% and 65 +/-
4% of basal values, respectively (P less than 0.01). The response of GH to TRH,
however, did not differ significantly between the two groups.CONCLUSIONS: 1. In
about 70% of patients with 'mixed' GH/Prl containing adenomas,
hyperprolactinaemia is present. 2. The simultaneous presence of Prl and GH in a
GH-secreting pituitary tumour increases the sensitivity of GH secretion to
bromocriptine. 3. The plasma Prl level is of value to predict which patients with
acromegaly are likely to respond to bromocriptine with an inhibition of GH
secretion.

PMID: 6310918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1813. J Lab Clin Med. 1983 Aug;102(2):260-73.

Serum protein concentration and portal pressure determine the ascitic fluid
protein concentration in patients with chronic liver disease.

Hoefs JC.

The ascitic fluid and serum concentrations of albumin and globulin were measured 
simultaneously with transhepatic portal pressure determination in 56 patients
with chronic liver disease to determine whether (1) portal pressure correlated
with (S-Asc)A and (2) the majority of variation in ascitic fluid protein
concentration between patients was related to fluid balance from serum to
ascites. The mean ascitic fluid albumin concentration was 1.04 +/- 0.73 gm/dl;
globulin concentration 1.31 +/- 0.80 gm/dl; and ascitic fluid total protein
concentration 2.35 +/- 1.49 gm/dl. The mean serum albumin concentration was 2.58 
+/- .57 gm/dl; globulin concentration 3.91 +/- .86 gm/dl; and total protein
concentration 6.49 +/- 1.30 gm/dl. The (S-Asc)A was 1.54 +/- .45 gm/dl. The mean 
PPIVC was 14.5 +/- 4.3 mm Hg. The (S-Asc)A correlated directly with PPIVC (r =
0.73; p less than 0.0001). The ascitic fluid protein correlated with three
variables that did not correlate with each other: serum albumin (r = 0.67; p less
than 0.0001), serum globulin (r = 0.44; p less than 0.001), and PPIVC (r = -0.48;
p less than 0.0005). The sum of the squared correlation coefficients with these
latter uncorrelated variables equaled 0.87 and partial correlation coefficient
analyses demonstrated an increase in the correlation of the ascitic fluid protein
with the serum albumin concentration when corrected for serum globulin and
(S-Asc)A (r = 0.97; p less than 0.0001) or PPIVC (r = 0.90; p less than 0.0001). 
Thus most of the variation in ascitic fluid protein between patients in this
study could be related to serum protein concentrations and PPIVC or (S-Asc)A.
Furthermore, multivariate discriminant analysis of patients with an ascitic fluid
protein less than or equal to 2.5 vs. greater than 2.5 gm/dl indicated that the
majority of differences between the two groups could be attributed to differences
in serum albumin and serum globulin in combination with the (S-Asc)A (canonical
correlation = 0.808) or PPIVC (canonical correlation = 0.806). These factors
could correctly identify the low or high ascitic fluid protein groups in 96% and 
93% of patients, respectively.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the (S-Asc)A is associated with 
the degree of portal pressure elevation and (2) the majority of variation in
ascitic fluid protein concentration between patients with chronic liver disease
is associated with differences in portal pressure and serum protein
concentrations.

PMID: 6864073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1814. J Lab Clin Med. 1983 Aug;102(2):213-9.

Hypercalcemia after nephrectomy in the dog: role of the kidneys and parathyroid
glands.

Tuma SN, Mallette LE.

To examine the role of the kidneys and parathyroid glands in the development of
hypercalcemia after bilateral nephrectomy, changes in serum calcium and iPTH were
measured in dogs after bilateral nephrectomy, bilateral ureteral ligation,
bilateral nephrectomy of thyroparathyroidectomized animals, or sham operation.
Total calcium increased at 24 hr after nephrectomy, remained unchanged after
bilateral ureteral ligation or sham surgery, and decreased after nephrectomy of
thyroparathyroidectomized dogs. Ionized calcium decreased significantly at 12 hr 
after nephrectomy or ureteral ligation but returned to normal after 24 to 48 hr. 
At 72 hr ionized calcium remained normal in the nephrectomized animals but fell
significantly in the ureteral ligation animals. At 12 and 24 hr, PTH was
significantly higher (4.3- and 2.0-fold, respectively) in the nephrectomized
group than in the ureteral ligation group.CONCLUSIONS: (1) the increase in total 
serum calcium after bilateral nephrectomy in the dog is not accompanied by an
increase in ionized calcium; (2) intact parathyroid function is necessary for the
increase in total calcium and for the maintenance of ionized calcium after
nephrectomy; (3) the presence of the kidneys in the ureteral ligation model
prevents the rise in total serum calcium and allows a fall in ionized calcium.

PMID: 6864071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1815. Am J Emerg Med. 1983 Jul;1(1):7-11.

Venous return in hemorrhagic shock after application of military anti-shock
trousers.

Lee HR, Blank WF, Massion WH, Downs P, Wilder RJ.

The effect of Military Anti-Shock Trousers (MAST) on inferior vena cava blood
flow was studied during graded hypovolemia using a pump reservoir system and an
in-line electromagnetic flowprobe. During hemorrhagic shock MAST inflation
increased cardiac output 25.4% (CONTROL: 0.92 +/- 0.09 l/min) and arterial
pressure 50% (
CONTROL: 60 +/- 2 mmHg). The so-called "autotransfusion" effect due to blood
displacement from the lower part of the body into the central circulation was
found to be only 4.3 +/- 0.6 ml/kg, a volume much less than previously estimated 
in the literature. We conclude that MAST inflation reliably improves cardiac
output and systemic blood pressure above the diaphragm in dogs subjected to
hemorrhagic shock. This effect is mainly due to a diversion of the cardiac output
to the upper half of the body due to impedance of flow to the abdomen and lower
extremities, rather than to a significant volume shift constituting an
autotransfusion of blood from the lower part of the body.

PMID: 6680609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1816. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Jul;65(6):797-807.

Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease. Histochemical and ultrastructural observations of the
epiphyseal cartilage and physis.

Ponseti IV, Maynard JA, Weinstein SL, Ippolito EG, Pous JG.

Biopsy specimens of the lateral aspect of the femoral head and neck were obtained
from five children with Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease and were studied using
histochemistry and electron microscopy. Beneath the normal articular cartilage
there was a thick zone of hyaline (epiphyseal) cartilage containing sharply
demarcated areas of hypercellular and fibrillated cartilage with prominent blood 
vessels. The fibrillated cartilage was strongly positive to alcian blue, weakly
positive to periodic acid-Schiff, and positive to aniline blue. The
interterritorial matrix in the hypercellular areas was weakly positive to both
alcian blue and periodic acid-Schiff. Ultrastructural examination of these areas 
revealed many irregularly oriented large collagen fibrils and variable amounts of
proteoglycan granules. These results suggest that in the fibrillar areas there
are: (1) a high proteoglycan content, (2) a decrease in structural glycoproteins,
and (3) a different size of collagen fibrils from that of normal epiphyseal
cartilage. The hypercellular areas had a decrease in proteoglycans,
glycoproteins, and collagen. The lateral physeal margin was often irregular, with
a marked reduction of collagen and proteoglycan granules, and contained numerous 
large lipid inclusions.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The abnormal areas in the epiphyseal
cartilage of patients with Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease have different
histochemical and structural properties from normal cartilage and from
fibrocartilage. This suggests that the disease could be a localized expression of
a generalized, transient disorder of epiphyseal cartilage that is responsible for
delayed skeletal maturation. The cartilage lesions are similar to those seen in
the vertebral plates in patients with juvenile kyphosis. Whether the epiphyseal
cartilage abnormalities are primary or are secondary to ischemia remains
uncertain; however, it appears that the collapse and necrosis of the femoral head
could result from the breakdown and disorganization of the matrix of the
epiphyseal cartilage, followed by abnormal ossification.

PMID: 6863362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1817. J Steroid Biochem. 1983 Jul;19(1A):391-402.

Pharmacological basis for clinical use of antiandrogens.

Neumann F.

The first antiandrogen which was also of clinical interest--cyproterone acetate
(CPA)--was discovered at the beginning of the 60th. CPA acts in all target organs
for androgens and in principle affects all functions which are governed or
influenced by androgens under physiological or pathophysiological
conditions.EXAMPLES: Accessory sexual gland function and spermatogenesis are
inhibited, there is a loss of libido in most species, the onset of puberty and
bone maturation is delayed, sebaceous gland function and lipogenesis is
inhibited, androgen mediated steps in male sexual differentiation do not occur.
CPA is also a highly effective progestrogen and it inhibits gonadotrophine
secretion. The progestational partial effect is especially important for the use 
of this drug in women in the treatment of certain dermatological disorders. CPA
has certain glucocorticoid-like properties in animals. In humans these effects
were only seen under high-dose therapy of children with precocious puberty
(greater than 80 to 100 mg/m3 body area) but never in adults. Proven indications 
for CPA: Prostatic carcinoma, precocious puberty, hypersexuality and sexual
deviations, androgenization in women (hirsutism, acne, seborrhoea oleosa,
alopecia androgentica).

PMID: 6224971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1818. J Surg Res. 1983 Jul;35(1):73-82.

Low molecular weight dextran in experimental pancreatitis: effects on pancreatic 
microcirculation.

Knol JA, Edgcomb LP, Inman MG, Eckhauser FE.

Although low molecular weight (LMW) dextran has been said to decrease the
lethality of experimental acute pancreatitis (AP) by reversing stasis in the
pancreatic microcirculation, the actual mechanism(s) of action is unknown. This
investigation was designed to measure the effects of low molecular weight dextran
on pancreatic capillary flow (QCAP) and arteriovenous shunt flow (QAVS), and on
pancreatic oxygen consumption (O2CP) following bile-trypsin-induced AP in dogs.
Total pancreatic blood flow (QT) was measured with an electromagnetic flow probe 
on the superior pancreaticoduodenal artery (SPDA). QAVS was measured by liver
trapping of 99mTc-albumin microspheres after SPDA injection. QCAP was calculated 
as QT minus QAVS. Seventeen dogs were treated with lactated Ringer's (LR)
solution at 6.5 ml/kg/hr; 10 dogs were treated with LMW dextran 10% in normal
saline at 1.5 ml/kg/hr plus LR at 5.0 ml/kg/hr. Mean arterial and central venous 
pressures remained constant throughout the 4-hr experiment. In the dogs receiving
LR only, QT decreased from 42.7 to 24.4 ml/min (P less than 0.001); QAVS remained
constant at 1.35 +/- 0.04 ml/min. During the first 30 min O2CP decreased from
1.17 to 0.76 ml O2/min (P less than 0.05) and remained constant thereafter. LMW
dextran treatment altered none of these hemodynamic or metabolic parameters
significantly.CONCLUSIONS: bile trypsin AP in the dog causes significant
decreases in QT and QCAP without altering QAVS. The decrease in O2CP in
association with a constant QAVS suggests a metabolic block to oxygen uptake at
the cellular level. Continuous infusion of LMW dextran at a dose of 1.5 ml/kg/hr 
in the dog does not reverse these abnormalities.

PMID: 6191124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1819. Laryngol Rhinol Otol (Stuttg). 1983 Jul;62(7):289-92.

[Stapedius reflex. 1. Stapedius reflex threshold and recruitment].

[Article in German]

Wurzer H.

The stapedius reflex threshold and pure tone threshold of 173 patients with
normal hearing and cochlear disorders were examined (using Madsen ZO 73
equipment).CONCLUSIONS: 1. The aetiology of the cochlear hearing disorders does
not influence the stapedial reflex threshold. 2. A linear regression between
hearing loss and threshold difference was found in cochlear hearing disorders. 3.
No correlation could be found between individual pure tone threshold and
stapedial reflex threshold.

PMID: 6621210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1820. Brain. 1983 Jun;106 (Pt 2):503-11.

Blood pressure and vasopressin in progressive autonomic failure. Response to
postural stimulation, L-dopa and naloxone.

Puritz R, Lightman SL, Wilcox CS, Forsling M, Bannister R.

We showed previously that patients with progressive autonomic failure with
multiple system atrophy (MSA) failed to excrete a water load while they were
standing, suggesting abnormal postural regulation of vasopressin release. The
rise of plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) with upright posture is modulated by
central dopamine and opioid receptors. Patients with MSA may have depletion of
brain dopamine and opioid peptides. We measured the plasma levels of AVP in
patients with MSA and control subjects during postural stimulation by head-up
tilt and the inhibition of this rise in AVP by L-DOPA (dopamine precursor) and
naloxone (opiate antagonist). Since L-DOPA and naxolone can alleviate
hypotension, we also studied the effects of these agents on orthostatic
hypotension. Plasma AVP concentration of normal subjects rose progressively over 
90 min of head-up tilt and this postural rise in AVP was abolished by L-DOPA and 
naloxone. Patients with MSA had similar levels of AVP while horizontal. However, 
they showed a severely blunted postural AVP response since their levels rose to
only 10 per cent of the rise in the normal subjects despite the additional
stimulus to AVP secretion of considerable postural hypotension. They also showed 
no inhibition of AVP secretion by L-DOPA or naloxone. Naloxone did not alter the 
blood pressure of either group. Although L-DOPA did not change the blood pressure
of normal subjects, it lowered it in patients with MSA both while they were
horizontal and tilted.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the postural stimulation of AVP release 
is blunted in MSA; (2) this postural rise in AVP is not inhibited by a dopamine
agonist or opioid antagonist in MSA suggesting loss of dopaminergic and opioid
pathways involved in AVP release; (3) endogenous opioids do not contribute to
orthostatic hypotension in MSA; (4) patients with MSA are supersensitive to the
hypotensive effects of an acute L-DOPA infusion.

PMID: 6850280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1821. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Jun;65(5):629-31.

Irrigating solutions for arthroscopy. A metabolic study.

Reagan BF, McInerny VK, Treadwell BV, Zarins B, Mankin HJ.

In an effort to determine the optimum solution for irrigation during arthroscopic
procedures, an in vitro metabolic experiment was performed in which cartilage
slices were incubated with 35SO4 in various commercially available solutions,
harvested at regular intervals, and assayed for incorporated radioactivity. The
solutions were compared with Ham F12 medium, a complex, ionically balanced salt
and amino-acid solution that is used for tissue culture. The data show that
neither normal saline or phosphate-buffered saline supports metabolic activity as
well as Ringer lactate or acetate, both of which approximate the values for the
control, Ham F12 solution.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Arthroscopy and arthroscopic
surgical procedures have become commonplace in orthopaedic practice. Normal
saline solution, commonly used in large quantities as an irrigating solution, is 
in fact not physiological, and we showed that it inhibits normal synthesis of
proteoglycan by the chondrocytes. Ringer lactate seemed to support cartilage
metabolism as well as an "ideal" tissue-culture medium (Ham F12 solution). Since 
Ringer solution and normal saline cost the same in our hospital, we strongly
recommend that this more physiological solution be used for arthroscopic
procedures.

PMID: 6853568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1822. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Jun;65(5):663-6.

Absence of the glycerol phosphate shuttle in the various zones of the growth
plate.

Brighton CT, Lackman RD, Cuckler JM.

The various zones of the growth plate of the rib of six-week-old male New Zealand
White rabbits were obtained by means of a specially devised guillotine slicing
apparatus. Cartilage slices from each zone were assayed enzymatically for
activity of glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase by an adaptation of a fluorimetric
technique based on the conversion of non-fluorescent resazurin to the highly
fluorescent resorufin in the presence of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and
the enzyme. No glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase activity was detectable in any
zone of the growth plate, whereas control liver slices exhibited abundant enzyme 
activity. Thus the glycerol phosphate shuttle, one pathway whereby reducing
equivalents are carried or shuttled from cytoplasmic nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide to the intramitochondrial respiratory chain, is entirely lacking in 
growth-plate chondrocytes. The lack of this enzyme, and the absence of the
glycerol phosphate shuttle, may explain the high rate of lactate accumulation in 
the presence of ample oxygen concentration (aerobic accumulation) even though the
Krebs cycle (tricarboxylic acid cycle) and electron transport are proceeding at
normal rates.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The growth plate is a complex structure whose
metabolism is still not well understood. This study demonstrates that, in at
least one metabolic pathway, the growth-plate chondrocyte does not resemble other
normal cells. Only as we are able to formulate a more complete picture of the
metabolism of the normal growth plate will be able to understand, and perhaps
correct or prevent, those disease states in which growth-plate metabolism has
bone away.

PMID: 6406512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1823. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Jun;65(5):575-84.

The synovial-like membrane at the bone-cement interface in loose total hip
replacements and its proposed role in bone lysis.

Goldring SR, Schiller AL, Roelke M, Rourke CM, O'Neil DA, Harris WH.

The membrane present at the bone-cement interface was retrieved from twenty
patients with a loose, non-septic failed total hip replacement at a site clearly 
remote from the pseudocapsule that reformed postoperatively. The orientation of
the membrane was carefully marked to identify the surface in contact with cement.
The membrane was studied histologically, histochemically, by cell culture, by
organ culture, and by assessment of its ability to synthesize prostaglandin E2
and collagenase. This membrane, rather than being a nondescript so-called fibrous
membrane, has the histological and histochemical characteristics of a
synovial-like lining. The synovial-like cells are adjacent to the cement layer.
Deep to them macrophages predominate. Inflammatory cells are absent. Cell
cultures of this membrane contain stellate cells similar to those found in cell
cultures of normal and rheumatoid synovial tissue. This membrane has the capacity
to produce large amounts of prostaglandin E2 and collagenase.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: 
This transformation of tissue at the bone-cement interface in patients with a
non-septic, loose total hip component to a synovial-like tissue with the capacity
to generate prostaglandin E2 and collagenase may explain the progressive lysis of
bone that is seen in some patients with loose cemented total joint implants.
Loosening of the component may be a stimulus to the synthetic activity of this
tissue, which leads to further resorption of bone. Understanding and the
possibility of pharmacological control of this membrane may contribute to
improved duration of total joint implants.

PMID: 6304106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1824. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Jun;35(6):773-81.

[Platelet function during pregnancy, labor, early puerperium, and in
preeclampsia].

[Article in Japanese]

Murata M.

It was revealed that the coagulo-fibriolytic system in severe toxemia of
pregnancy showed chronic DIC. But platelet function which included platelet
release reaction was not completely studied in severe toxemia of pregnancy. ADP
induced platelet aggregation was decreased in those cases, and especially in
eclampsia, platelets failed to be aggregated by ADP. To reveal the mechanism of
these phenomena, the following study was performed.METHOD: Platelet count, ADP
induced platelet aggregation, beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG), antithrombin III
(ATIII), and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products (FDP) were determined during 
pregnancy, labor, puerperium, and in severe toxemia.
RESULTS: 1. Platelet count, ADP induced aggregation, ATIII were decreased and
beta-TG was increased in severe toxemia and also in the very early period of
puerperium, significantly. 2. There was no significant correlation between FDP
and ADP induced aggregation. ADP induced aggregation was not inhibited by FDP in 
vitro at the final concentration of less than 720 micrograms/ml. This suggests
that thrombin formation occurs in vivo, in toxemia and in a moment at a very
early stage of puerperium, because of high beta-TG level and low ATIII level. But
there may be numerous number of platelet which remains reversible. The reduction 
in the ADP induced platelet aggregation cannot be due to FDP, but may be due to
an increased number of exhausted platelets.

PMID: 6223963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1825. Z Kardiol. 1983 Jun;72(6):313-20.

[Myocardial 201-thallium uptake after hydralazine in coronary disease].

[Article in German]

Klepzig M, Kment A, Kleinhans E, Büll U, Strauer BE.

Following injection of hydralazine, a benign coronary-artery-dilating drug,
myocardial blood flow increased by 25%. Myocardial 201-thallium uptake at rest
and after intravenous injection of 12 mg hydralazine was quantitatively
investigated in 28 patients. In patients with essential hypertension or coronary 
artery stenoses of up to 90%, myocardial 201-thallium uptake increased by 19%-30%
in nonischemic areas. In 9 of 14 patients with regional imaging defects, thallium
uptake also increased in these ischemic areas; 4 of these patients had asynergies
in the area of imaging defects. In 3 patients with a complete obstruction of a
major branch of a coronary artery perfusion defects developed following
hydralazine application.CONCLUSION: An increased 201-thallium uptake in an
ischemic area indicates reperfusion; this could be helpful for deciding whether
coronary surgery should be performed or not.

PMID: 6613225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1826. Diabete Metab. 1983 May-Jun;9(2):112-5.

Effect of physical training on the oxidation of an oral glucose load at rest: a
naturally labeled 13C-glucose study.

Krzentowski G, Pirnay F, Luyckx AS, Lacroix M, Mosora F, Lefebvre PJ.

This study aimed at investigating, in six healthy, non obese, young (25 +/- 1
years) male volunteers, with strictly normal oral glucose tolerance, the
influence of a six week physical training period (60 min bicycling 5 days/week at
30-40% of their individual VO2 max) on the hormonal and metabolic response to a
100 g oral 13C-naturally labeled glucose load given at rest before and 36 h after
the last training session. Exogenous glucose oxidation was derived from 13CO2
measurements on expired air. Training resulted in: a 29% increase in VO2 max (2 p
less than 0.002), a 27% decrease in plasma triglycerides (2 p less than 0.02). No
changes were observed concerning weight, total body K, skinfold tolerance, which 
was strictly normal before training, remained unchanged, but the insulin response
to the oral glucose load decreased by 24% (2 p less than 0.025). Exogenous
glucose oxidation was similar before and after training, averaging 35.9 +/- 2.1
and 37.4 +/- 2.0 g/7 h respectively.IN CONCLUSION: a 6 week training period,
performed on strictly healthy young males, studied at rest, induced an increase
in VO2 max, a decrease in plasma triglycerides and a lower insulin response to
oral glucose while glucose tolerance and exogenous glucose oxidation remained
unchanged.

PMID: 6352348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1827. Endocrinology. 1983 May;112(5):1886-8.

Potassium-modulated secretion of immunoreactive melanocyte-stimulating hormone
and endorphin from mouse neuro-intermediate lobes: evidence for
stimulus-secretion uncoupling and rate sensitivity.

Keith LD, Allen RG, Stack J, Robertson LM, Kendall JW.

A multi-chamber perifusion system, capable of detecting transient secretory
events, was used to define the roles of stepwise changes and gradients of K+
concentration in modulation of alpha-MSH and endorphin secretion. Fifteen
dispersed mouse neuro-intermediate lobes per chamber were perifused with
Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium at 0.5 ml/min. One-min fractions were collected.
Ten min of 67 mM K+ elicited an immediate, very brief 4-fold increase in
secretion of both hormones. Surprisingly, the return to normal K+ elicited a
similar increase in secretion. Ten min K+-free medium produced an immediate
decrease in secretion. Exposure to a 10-min 0-67 mM K+ gradient did not produce
an increase in secretion; however, the stepwise return to normal K+, identical to
that in the first experiment, elicited an immediate, brief increase in
secretion.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The rapid decline in secretory activity during 67 mM K+
cannot be explained either by "down regulation" of receptors, since this
secretagogue is not receptor-mediated, or by depletion of labile hormone, since a
second secretory episode occurred immediately following termination of high K+.
This suggests that some other cellular mechanism "uncouples" stimulus-secretory
mechanisms. 2) Although depolarization with high K+ and hyperpolarization with
K+-free medium were associated with increases and decreases, respectively, in
secretion, it appears that it is the rate of ion flux rather than polarization
which is responsible for stimulus-secretion coupling.

PMID: 6832076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1828. Exp Eye Res. 1983 May;36(5):751-60.

The effects of an aldose reductase inhibitor upon the sorbitol pathway,
fructose-1-phosphate and lactate in the retina and nerve of
streptozotocin-diabetic rats.

Poulsom R, Mirrlees DJ, Earl DC, Heath H.

To investigate the aetiology of complications secondary to experimental diabetes 
in the rat, the concentrations of glucose, sorbitol, fructose,
fructose-1-phosphate, lactate and inositol were measured in the retina and
sciatic nerve of streptozotocin-diabetic and normal rats treated for 22 days with
ICI 105552 (1-(3,4-dichlorobenzyl)-3-methyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxoquinol-4-ylacetic
acid, sodium salt; 50 mg/kg body wt daily), an inhibitor of aldose reductase
(E.C. 1.1.1.21) the first enzyme of the sorbitol pathway. In the diabetic nerve, 
where accumulation of sorbitol may be pathogenic, treatment with ICI 105552
reduced the accumulations of sorbitol (70%), fructose (47%) and lactate (34%)
without affecting glucose, fructose-1-phosphate or inositol. In the nerves of
controls, the inhibitor reduced both sorbitol (23%) and fructose (20%) levels
without other effects. In the diabetic retina where accumulation of sorbitol or
lactate might be pathogenic, treatment with ICI 105552 had no statistically
significant effect upon the concentrations of glucose, sorbitol, fructose,
fructose-1-phosphate or inositol. However, the inhibitor reduced the
concentration of lactate to below the non-diabetic level. In the retinas of
controls, dosage with ICI 105552 reduced the concentration of sorbitol by 36%
without other effects.THE RESULTS: (1) demonstrated that ICI 105552 was a potent 
inhibitor of aldose reductase in sciatic nerve and suggested that a proportion of
nerve lactate in diabetes could result from sorbitol pathway activity; (2)
implied that flux through the sorbitol pathway, eventually to form lactate,
increases in diabetic retina; and (3) indicated, by the drug's reduction of
retinal lactate concentration, that inhibitors of aldose reductase might be of
potential use in diabetic retinopathy.

PMID: 6406254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1829. J Surg Res. 1983 May;34(5):486-92.

Enterooxyntin release from isolated perfused canine jejunum.

Walker WA, Strodel WE, Eckhauser FE, Heldsinger A, Vinik AI.

A humoral factor may mediate the intestinal phase of gastric acid secretion. An
ex vivo perfused segment of canine jejunum maintained by an oxygenated
asanguinous physiologic perfusate was used to test for release of an
enterooxyntin (EO) in response to balloon distention at 30 mm Hg for 15 min.
Gastric acid secretion in guinea pig fundic mucosa was determined indirectly by a
quantitative cytochemical bioassay (CBA) of oxyntic cell hydroxyl ion production 
(HIP). An increase in the optical density (OD) caused by the cytochemical stain
in the oxyntic cells reflects HIP, an index of acid secretion. Basal OD for
segments with distention was 16.6 +/- 0.53 and for those without 15.5 +/- 0.68
(NS). Results are expressed as mean change of OD from basal (mean delta OD +/-
SEM). (Table-see text) EO caused greater stimulation of HIP than gastrin or
histamine. EO was heat stable. Trichloroacetic acid treatment decreased EO
activity as did pronase digestion suggesting that EO is composed of one or more
peptides.CONCLUSION: EO, an acid secretagogue, is a humoral agent probably
composed of one or more peptides and is released by small bowel distention.
Mechanical distention of the small bowel may be an important mechanism for the
perpetuation of gastric acid secretion. The ex vivo perfused jejunal segment in
conjunction with the CBA are ideal tools with which to study mechanisms of
release of EO and the mechanism of action of EO on the oxyntic cell.

PMID: 6843113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1830. Med Trop (Mars). 1983 May-Jun;43(3):253-62.

[Esophageal cancer in the tropical environment].

[Article in French]

Gendron Y, Courbil LJ, Aubry P.

The esophageal cancer is unevenly distributed within the Tropical regions: while 
its prevalence rate is high in East and South Africa and in the Far-East, this
rate is much lower in West Africa. In most cases, the practitioner will face very
evolutive forms, generally out of range of any therapy. In developing countries, 
efforts must be directed towards three goals: --EPIDEMIOLOGY: Detection of the
predisposing factors such as traumatisms, the use of bethel, kath, tobacco, and, 
above all, alcohol (beer consumption is steadily increasing in African
countries). --
DIAGNOSIS: Development of the endoscopy of the digestive tract. --
SURGERY: Its remains the only therapeutic solution; but it is costly, time
consuming and major surgery.

PMID: 6350801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1831. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1983 May;173(1):109-17.

Verapamil: influence upon basal and stimulated rat growth hormone and prolactin
release in vitro.

Stachura ME.

Verapamil is an organic calcium antagonist which is believed to prevent the
passage of calcium (Ca2+) across the cell membrane into the cell. In a rat
pituitary perifusion-immunoprecipitation system, verapamil (50 microM) prevents
the inhibitory effect of increased extracellular Ca2+ (5.4 mM) on basal and
stimulated release of stored, prelabeled [3H]GH and [3H]PRL. [3H]GH release from 
pituitary explants perifused in standard medium (GIBCO Minimum Essential Medium: 
1.8 mM Ca2+) is transiently increased by 50 microM verapamil while [3H]PRL
release is suppressed. With continued exposure to 50 microM verapamil, [3H]GH
release rates fall below (89.8 +/- 2.1% of base) preverapamil levels while
[3H]PRL release rates simply remain suppressed (48.2 +/- 7.3% of base). With 250 
microM verapamil, poststimulatory inhibition of [3H]GH release occurs more
quickly, and after its withdrawal rebound release of both GH and PRL occur.
Inhibition of [3H]GH release by 25 nM somatostatin (SRIF) and post-SRIF rebound
[3H]GH release is not prevented by 50 microM verapamil. The early, rapid [3H]GH
release phase of 1 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) stimulation is potentiated by
verapamil pretreatment, but only if the verapamil is continued during dbcAMP
stimulation. Potassium (21 mM K+)-stimulated release of both 3H-labeled hormones 
is inhibited after similar pretreatment 50 microM verapamil.CONCLUSIONS: (a)
verapamil antagonizes the inhibitory effects of increased extracellular Ca2+ on
basal or dbcAMP-stimulated [3H]GH and [3H]PRL release; (b) in standard medium
(1.8 mM Ca2+), 50 microM verapamil increases basal [3H]GH release suggesting
either a direct effect or an antagonism of 1.8 mM extracellular Ca2+; (c)
although verapamil-sensitive Ca2+ movement is not necessary for dbcAMP
stimulation of [3H]GH release, verapamil potentiates dbcAMP-stimulated release;
(d) because verapamil also inhibits K+-stimulated [3H]GH and [3H]PRL release,
these observations support previous suggestions that K+- and dbcAMP-stimulated
rapid hormone release occurs from different intracellular sites; and (e) because 
verapamil does not prevent any phase of SRIF action and since these two agents
differentially alter K+- and cAMP-stimulated release, their mechanisms of action 
must partially differ.

PMID: 6134290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1832. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1983 May;31 Spec 2:94-6.

Medtronic-Hall valve: thromboembolic complications.

Castro Farinas E, Ponce Rodriguez G.

We have studied the incidence of thromboembolic complications in 46 patients.
Twenty-one patients had a Medtronic-Hall prosthesis implanted in the mitral
position (group A) and 25 patients had the same prosthesis implanted in the
aortic position (group B). Several factors were defined initially as
"thromboembolic risk factors" and we have tried to establish a correlation
between those factors and the actual thromboembolic complications. Group A: 21
patients presented 5 thromboembolic accidents (23.8%). Preeminent factors were:
preoperative thromboembolic phenomena, previous heart operations, atrial
fibrillation and the presence of congestive heart failure and/or low outpout
syndrome in the postoperative period. Group B: 25 patients presented 6
thromboembolic accidents (24%). If we exclude the presence of low outpout
syndrome in the postoperative period, there was no correlation between other risk
factors and the incidence of thromboembolic complications. We must mention that
the incidence of thromboembolic complications in this group diminished
significantly (26% to 16%) when oral anticoagulation was continued with
aspirin.COMMENTARY: these figures of thromboembolic complications appear too high
at first sight if we consider only their absolute value, but are justified when
one bears in mind the clinical circumstances of the patients who suffered from
thromboembolic complications.

PMID: 6192544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1833. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1983 Apr;102(4):567-71.

Effects of triiodothyronine and nutritional status on nuclear non-histone
proteins of the rat liver.

Juge-Aubry CE, Bachmann K, Burger AG.

In the hepatic nucleus of the rat at least 2 nuclear globulin bands, identified
by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, are known to be influenced by thyroid 
hormones. In the present article a quantitation of these bands was obtained by
scanning techniques. The effects of T3 were studied in male thyroidectomized (Tx)
and intact rats. After sacrifice the hepatic nuclear globulins were prepared
according to published methods. In Tx rats substituted with a single dose of 50
micrograms or during one week 2 micrograms T3 the t band decreased from 5.3% to
2.7% of the total nuclear globulin content which represent a complete
normalisation. The n band did not show this rapid response to T3 as 2 micrograms 
given for one week only partially restored this band (Tx 1.4%, Tx + T3 2.2%).
However during starvation of intact rats only the n band was slightly influenced 
by T3 as 2 micrograms of T3 partially prevented the decrease of this band seen in
untreated euthyroid starving rats. The increase of the t band in starvation was
not affected by T3.IN CONCLUSION: the n and t bands are controlled by several
factors, two of which are T3 and nutrition. The control of the t band seems to be
dominated by the nutritional status of the animal. T3 seems to keep some activity
on the n band, even in starved rats.

PMID: 6845954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1834. Biochem Med. 1983 Apr;29(2):207-13.

Protein turnover and physical fitness in man.

Stein TP, Settle RG, Howard KA, Diamond CE.

The whole-body flux and protein-synthesis rates were determined in two groups of 
adult males aged 20-30 years who were matched for height and weight. [15N]Glycine
was used as a tracer. Flux and synthesis rates were calculated from the urinary
ammonia 15N excretion enrichment. Group I consisted of international competition 
level oarsmen, while Group II engaged in no exercise program. Measurement of the 
urinary nitrogen excretion rate showed that the oarsmen excreted more than twice 
as much nitrogen as the control group (P less than 0.05).RESULTS: flux and
synthesis were 21.3 +/- 3.2 gN/9 hr and 188.7 +/- 59.9 g protein/day for the
oarsmen and 16.4 +/- 2.1 g N/9 hr and 201.7 +/- 33.0 g protein/day for the
controls. Data are +/- 1 SD for the eight oarsmen and eight controls. The flux
values were different at the P less than 0.05 level. We concluded that (i) an
exercise program does not lead to an increase in the basal protein turnover rate 
in adequately nourished individuals.

PMID: 6860319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1835. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Apr;65(4):500-6.

The role of lavage in preventing hemodynamic and blood-gas changes during
cemented arthroplasty.

Sherman RM, Byrick RJ, Kay JC, Sullivan TR, Waddell JP.

An experimental model was designed to investigate the role of meticulous
intramedullary lavage in the prevention of the blood-gas and hemodynamic changes 
that have been documented to occur during cemented arthroplasty. Twenty-one adult
mongrel dogs were divided into two groups. One group had the medullary canal
thoroughly lavaged prior to insertion of the cement and prosthesis and the other 
group had no lavage. The results clearly showed that careful lavage can eliminate
the significant decreases in arterial PO2 and increases in intrapulmonary shunt
fraction and pulmonary artery pressure that were evident in the group that did
not have lavage. Femoral medullary reaming was investigated and was shown not to 
compromise the dogs' cardiopulmonary status.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: During cemented
arthroplasty, thorough lavage of a plugged medullary canal prior to insertion of 
the cement and prosthesis is a highly effective prophylactic measure in the
elimination of gas-exchange and hemodynamic complications.

PMID: 6833326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1836. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Apr;65(4):495-9.

A stress analysis of acetabular reconstruction in protrusio acetabuli.

Crowninshield RD, Brand RA, Pedersen DR.

We are reporting the results of a finite-element analysis of acetabular
reconstruction for total hip replacement in the presence of protrusio acetabuli. 
In a protruded acetabulum, cortical bone stresses on the medial part of the
pelvic wall increase with medial placement of the acetabular component, while
normal placement of the component (more lateral placement) reduces these
stresses. Metal backing of a polyethylene acetabular component causes a reduction
in the peak cement and trabecular-bone stresses. A metal protrusio ring about
only the periphery of the acetabular component increases stress levels within the
lateral part of the pelvic cortex and has little effect on stresses in the medial
part of the pelvic wall. A complete metal protrusio cup increases stresses in the
lateral part of the pelvic cortex while decreasing substantially the stresses in 
the medial part of the cortex and the trabecular bone. Prosthetic reinforcement
of the medial part of the acetabular wall has little effect on stress patterns in
the acetabular region.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The major long-term problem with
cemented total hip prostheses is loosening. Loosening is probably related in part
to the stress state in the cement and surrounding bone. The protruded acetabulum 
is particularly difficult to reconstruct in a manner that ensures longevity of
the total hip replacement. In patients with protrusio acetabuli, the prosthetic
acetabulum should be placed in a normal and not in a protruded position. A
metal-backed acetabular component or a complete metal cup incorporated within the
cement reduces stress levels within the medial aspect of the pelvic bone and thus
may reduce the incidence of loosening.

PMID: 6833325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1837. J Clin Invest. 1983 Apr;71(4):840-9.

Structure-activity relationships of somatostatin analogs in the rabbit ileum and 
the rat colon.

Rosenthal LE, Yamashiro DJ, Rivier J, Vale W, Brown M, Dharmsathaphorn K.

Somatostatin increases absorption of electrolytes and inhibits diarrhea in
patients with endocrine tumors and short bowel syndrome. In an attempt to develop
a gut-specific somatostatin analog, each amino acid in the somatostatin molecule 
was replaced with L-alanine, deleted, or substituted with its D-isomer. The
potency of each analog to stimulate ion transport in the rabbit ileum was then
determined using the modified Ussing chamber technique. The results were compared
to the ability of each analog to inhibit the stimulated release of growth hormone
from cultured rat anterior pituitary cells and to inhibit the arginine-stimulated
release of insulin and glucagon in the rat in vivo. Analogs that showed gut
selectivity were then tested for their ion transport properties in the rat
colon.RESULTS: (a) Substitution with L-alanine or deletion of the amino acid at
position 6, 7, 8, or 9 and deletion of Threonine(10)-produced analogs with
significantly reduced ion transport properties to <4% of somatostatin's action.
The substitution also markedly reduced the ability of the compounds to inhibit
the release of growth hormone, insulin, and glucagon. (b) Selectivity of
intestinal ion transport was achieved by any one of the following alterations:
L-alanine substitution at Phenylalanine(11), deletion of Phenylalanine(11),
substitution with D-lysine at Lysine(4), or substitution with L-alanine at
Lysine(4). These compounds had intestinal ion transport properties of 52, 34,
139, and 94%, respectively, while demonstrating little or no inhibition of growth
hormone, insulin or glucagon release.
CONCLUSIONS: (a) Phenylalanine(6), Phenylalanine(7), Tryptophan(8), and Lysine(9)
are required for the ion transport and other biologic actions of somatostatin,
whereas Threonine(10) serves as an essential spacer. (b) Alteration at
Phenylalanine(11) or Lysine(4) yields analogs that are selective for ion
transport in the rabbit ileum and rat colon. These findings should be taken into 
consideration when developing a gut-specific somatostatin analog that can be
useful in the treatment of diarrhea.

PMCID: PMC436941
PMID: 6131906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1838. J Surg Res. 1983 Apr;34(4):347-57.

Effect of venting on myocardial protection by hypothermic cardioplegic arrest.

Yasuda RK, Fewel JG, Ghidoni JJ, Bennett EV Jr, Trinkle JK, Grover FL.

Myocardial rewarming between cardioplegic (CP) infusions is in part attributable 
to blood circulating through the heart from collateral channels. This experiment 
was performed to determine if the type of left ventricular (LV) venting affects
myocardial temperature (temp) or alters myocardial protection. Twelve dogs
underwent cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) at 37 degrees C and were subjected to 100 
min of cardioplegic arrest by intermittent coronary infusion of 300 ml 0-4
degrees C CP solution. Arterial, central venous, left atrial, and LV pressures;
cardiac output; systemic, septal (S), right ventricular (RV), and LV temp;
myocardial ATP and glycogen were measured; LV pressure/volume curves and LV dp/dt
were calculated. Group A (6 dogs) had an LV vent during CPB, and Group B (6 dogs)
had the aorta vented via the CP line. CP infusion lowered LV temp to 8 degrees C 
in Group A vs 13 degrees C in Group B (P less than 0.000002); S temp was lowered 
to 7 degrees C in Group A vs 11 C in Group B (P less than 0.00007); and RV temp
was lowered to 16 degrees C in Groups A and B. Ten minutes after CP, LV and S
temp increased to 20-21 degrees C in Groups A and B, and RV temp to 24-25 degrees
C in Groups A and B. Twenty minutes after CP all temperatures were the same.
Hemodynamics and myocardial metabolic studies were similar in the two
groups.CONCLUSIONS: Hearts vented via the LV cooled to a lower temperature vs
those vented via the aorta. Venting did not affect myocardial rewarming,
myocardial metabolites, or ventricular function.

PMID: 6834818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1839. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1983 Apr;182(4):318-21.

[Epidermal nevus syndrome (Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome) and early
childhood cataract development].

[Article in German]

Piper HF, Bastian GO.

The patient, now 14 years old, has been kept under observation since birth (and
was the subject of a paper published in 1973 by Leyh and Loewel). She has
cataract in both eyes, caused by intensive treatment with
corticosteroids.HISTOLOGY: initially adenoma sebaceum, subsequently
syringocystadenoma papilliferum. Plastic surgery was performed. With regard to
visual development, the patient suffered first from deviations without fixation
and now has a visual acuity of 0.25 with cataract lenses, with strabismus and
nystagmus latens. Epilepsy and mental retardation have also been diagnosed.

PMID: 6306331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1840. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Apr;35(4):431-6.

[A scanning electron microscope study of the fine angioarchitecture of the
uterine cervix - the process of mosaic formation and analysis of mosaic
patterns].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujimori T.

This study was designed to analyze the process of mosaic formation by a newly
established cast formation technique utilizing the scanning electron
microscope.RESULTS: 1) The angioarchitecture of the mosaic pattern in squamous
metaplasia shows only a loop in the minute vessel. 2) The angioarchitecture of
the mosaic pattern in neoplastic lesions shows various types of basket-like
structures protruding into the epithelial layer from the subepithelial capillary 
network. 3) The basket formation begins in low degree dysplasia when the
interconnection of the hairpin-like vessels protruding into the epithelial layer 
from the capillary network takes place. 4) The basket is almost completely formed
in high degree dysplasia and become much firmer in carcinoma in situ. 5) With
advancement of the neoplastic change the basket becomes bigger and deeper,
especially at the rim of basket where it becomes much thicker due to the
proliferation, conglutination and enlargement of superficial vessels. 6) The
destructive changes in the basket appear in early invasive carcinoma and is
observed at first on the bottom and rim. This study has elucidated the fine
angioarchitecture of various types of mosaic patterns and made it possible to
estimate the histological change by colposcopy.

PMID: 6854092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1841. Orthopedics. 1983 Apr 1;6(4):454-470. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19830401-08.

RADIOLOGIC CASE STUDY.

Silberstein MJ, Brodeur AE, Graviss ER, Sundaram M.

DIAGNOSIS: Congenital Generalized Fibromatosis.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24823238  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1842. Orthopedics. 1983 Apr 1;6(4):483-488. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19830401-11.

ANSWER PLEASE.

Yngve DA.

ANSWER: Sterile Abscess.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24822967  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1843. Acta Pharmacol Toxicol (Copenh). 1983 Mar;52(3):175-80.

The influence of orphenadrine or imipramine on the hypertensive response of
physostigmine in the rat.

Zandberg P, Sangster B.

An intravenous infusion of orphenadrine or imipramine to artificially ventilated,
urethane anaesthetized rats, completely blocked the physostigmine induced
increase in blood pressure and the blood pressure increase induced by electrical 
stimulation of the posterior hypothalamus; effects mediated via the sympathetic
nerve. The noradrenaline induced blood pressure increase was not changed during
an infusion with orphenadrine but was markedly depressed during an infusion with 
imipramine. During an infusion with both orphenadrine or imipramine the pressor
response induced by stimulation of the spinal cord were completely blocked in
pithed rats. The pattern of the blockade was comparable with the blockade of the 
pressor response after hypothalamic stimulation. These results show that at least
in rats both orphenadrine and imipramine prevents the central stimulatory
sympathetic effects on the cardiovascular system by interfering with the
sympathetic nervous system. The site of action is discussed.IN CONCLUSION: the
present results show that although physostigmine may be helpful in the treatment 
of central anticholinergic effects caused by overdoses of orphenadrine and
imipramine it is of no use for combating the direct toxic effects of both drugs
on the cardiovascular system.

PMID: 6846028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1844. Am J Cardiol. 1983 Mar 1;51(5):741-8.

Radionuclide-determined changes in pulmonary blood volume and thallium lung
uptake in patients with coronary artery disease.

Wilson RA, Okada RD, Boucher CA, Strauss HW, Pohost GM.

Exercise-induced increases in radionuclide-determined pulmonary blood volume
(PBV) and thallium lung uptake have been described in patients with coronary
artery disease (CAD) and have been shown to correlate with transient
exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction. To compare these 2 techniques in
the same patients, 74 patients (59 with and 15 without significant CAD) underwent
supine bicycle exercise twice on the same day--first for thallium myocardial and 
lung imaging and then for technetium-99m gated blood pool imaging for the PBV
ratio determination. Thallium activity of lung and myocardium was determined to
calculate thallium lung/heart ratio. Relative changes in PBV from rest to
exercise were expressed as a ratio of pulmonary counts (exercise/rest).
Previously reported normal ranges for thallium lung/heart ratio and PBV ratio
were used. The PBV ratio and thallium lung/heart ratio were abnormal in 71 and
36%, respectively, of patients with CAD (p less than 0.01). Both ratios were
normal in all patients without CAD. Although the resting ejection fractions did
not differ significantly in patients with normal versus those with abnormal PBV
ratios or thallium lung/heart ratios, abnormal PBV ratios and thallium lung/heart
ratios were associated with an exercise-induced decrease in ejection fraction.
Propranolol use was significantly higher in patients with abnormal than in those 
with normal thallium lung/heart ratios (p less than 0.01). No significant
difference in propranolol use was present in patients with abnormal or normal PBV
ratios.IN CONCLUSION: (1) the prevalence of an abnormal thallium lung/heart ratio
is less than that of the PBV ratio in patients with CAD; (2) both tests are
normal in normal control subjects; (3) propranolol does not cause abnormal
results in normal control subjects; however, propranolol may influence lung
thallium uptake in patients with CAD; and (4) when both tests are abnormal, there
is a high likelihood of multivessel disease.

PMID: 6829432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1845. Drugs. 1983 Mar;25(3):223-89.

Cefotaxime. A review of its antibacterial activity, pharmacological properties
and therapeutic use.

Carmine AA, Brogden RN, Heel RC, Speight TM, Avery GS.

SYNOPSIS: Cefotaxime is a new 'third generation' semisynthetic cephalosporin
administered intravenously or intramuscularly. It has a broad spectrum of
activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, 
and is generally more active against Gram-negative bacteria than the 'first' and 
'second generation' cephalosporins. Although cefotaxime has some activity against
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, on the basis of present evidence it cannot be recommended
as sole antibiotic therapy for pseudomonal infections. However, cefotaxime has
been effective in treating infections due to other 'difficult' organisms, such as
multidrug-resistant Enterobacteriaceae. Like other cephalosporins, cefotaxime is 
effective in treating patients with complicated urinary tract and lower
respiratory tract infections, particularly pneumonia caused by Gram-negative
bacilli. High response rates have also been achieved in patients with
Gram-negative bacteraemia. Although favourable clinical results have been
obtained in patients with infections caused by mixed aerobic/anaerobic organisms 
(such as peritonitis or soft tissue infections), the relatively low in vitro
activity of cefotaxime against Bacteroides fragilis may restrict its usage in
situations where this organism is the suspected or proven pathogen. In
preliminary studies, males and females treated with a single intramuscular dose
of cefotaxime for uncomplicated gonorrhoea caused by penicillinase-producing
strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae responded very favourably. Encouraging results
have also been reported in open studies in children including neonates, treated
with cefotaxime for meningitis and various other serious infections. In some
situations, cefotaxime has been given in combination with another antibiotic such
as an aminoglycoside, but the merits of such a combination have not been clearly 
established. Whether cefotaxime alone is appropriate therapy for conditions
previously treated with aminoglycosides (other than pseudomonal infections) also 
needs additional clarification, but if established as equally effective in such
conditions cefotaxime offers potentially important clinical and practical
advantages in its apparent lack of serious adverse effects and freedom from the
need to undertake drug plasma concentration monitoring.

PMID: 6303743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1846. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 1983 Mar;15(1):49-54.

[On-top plasty. Indications and technic in the reconstruction of severely injured
hands].

[Article in German]

Rico Aguado A, Nájera Tesseiner A, Rodríguez E, Moreno T.

The possibilities and advantages of the on-top plasty in the reconstruction of
severely damaged hands are described. Based upon ten cases, a classification into
four groups is made. In each of these groups different reconstructive procedures 
are applicable. Group 1: Intact thumb with loss of all fingers.PROCEDURE:
Lengthening of the third metacarpal by on-top-plasty of the distal half of the
second metacarpal. This simultaneously widens the first intermetacarpal space.
Group 2: Partial amputation of the thumb with severe damage to several fingers.
PROCEDURE: Thumb reconstruction by transposition of two phalanges of an otherwise
useless finger. Group 3: Loss of the thumb and of two and a half fingers.
PROCEDURE: Thumb reconstruction by transposition of the remaining basal phalanx. 
Group 4: Loss of the thumb and of three fingers.
PROCEDURE: Thumb reconstruction by on top-plasty of the distal half of the
metacarpals and rotational angulatory osteotomy of the fifth metacarpal.

PMID: 6852676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1847. Hear Res. 1983 Mar;9(3):295-316.

Aspirin can potentiate the temporary hearing loss induced by intense sounds.

McFadden D, Plattsmier HS.

Aspirin is known to produce a reversible loss of hearing that can be as great as 
40 dB, depending upon the dose and the individual subject. Here we show that
aspirin-induced losses exacerbate the temporary hearing loss induced by exposure 
to intense sound. EXPOSUREs that ordinarily produce about 14 dB of temporary
threshold shift (TTS) will produce about 18-27 dB of TTS if the listener has been
taking 3.9 g of aspirin for the past two days or more. A lesser dose or a shorter
duration of use produces a smaller, or no, increment in temporary hearing loss.
This greater TTS, and an apparent prolongation of recovery from exposure, make
chronic aspirin use ill-advised for people routinely exposed to intense
sounds.EXPOSURE: 2500 Hz, 10 min, varying intensity. TTS frequency: 3550 Hz.
Psychophysical method: 2IFC, adaptive.

PMID: 6841285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1848. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Mar;65(3):381-9.

Leakage of radioactive particle systems from a synovial joint studied with a
gamma camera. Its application to radiation synovectomy.

Noble J, Jones AG, Davies MA, Sledge CB, Kramer RI, Livni E.

We have determined rates of leakage of radioactivity from a rabbit synovial pouch
in vivo for a number of particle systems of varying sizes and differing
resistance to degradation. The estimates were made using a gamma scintillation
camera and without killing the test animals. The lowest leakage at twenty-four
hours was seen with inert carbonized microspheres and the highest rates were seen
with surface-labeled particles of biodegradable denatured human serum albumin and
with erythrocytes. The carbonized microspheres had no adverse long-term effects
on the health of the animals' articular cartilage.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results
obtained with inert particles indicate that reducing the biodegradability of the 
particle or increasing its diameter, or both, reduces radioactivity losses from
the knee joint. Large (twenty-five-micrometer-diameter) microspheres of human
serum albumin incorporating the radioactivity and carbonized microspheres are
suggested as potential carriers of isotopes for human radiation synovectomy.

PMID: 6826601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1849. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Mar;65(3):371-80.

Experimental osteomyelitis: description of a canine model and the role of depot
administration of antibiotics in the prevention and treatment of sepsis.

Fitzgerald RH Jr.

Osteomyelitis of the proximal portion of the tibia was consistently produced in
the dog by the instillation of a suspension of Staphylococcus aureus about an
intramedullary foreign body consisting of acrylic bone cement. The clinical,
histological, and roentgenographic manifestations of the infectious process were 
consistent with those of subacute osteomyelitis, such as may be encountered in
infections following total joint arthroplasty. The osteomyelitic process
persisted in six of the seven tibiae even after removal of the acrylic bone
cement. Using this model, gentamicin-impregnated acrylic bone cement (Palacos)
prevented the development of osteomyelitis in nine of ten tibiae that were
concomitantly exposed to Staphylococcus aureus in concentrations ranging from 1 x
10(3) to 1 x 10(9) organisms. However, Palacos in bulk form was ineffective in
the treatment of three of five tibiae in which osteomyelitis caused by
Staphylococcus aureus was already established.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A variety of
new antimicrobial agents has been introduced, but evaluation of the value of
these agents in infections of the musculoskeletal system has relied almost
exclusively on clinical trials. Preclinical trials in an animal model could
permit earlier detection of promising agents and proper dosage schedules. Newer
surgical procedures utilized in the treatment of osteomyelitis, such as local
muscle flaps and free vascularized flaps, could also be evaluated to determine
how they influence the local blood supply and microbial persistence. In addition,
the animal model might aid in the evaluation of newer and non-invasive diagnostic
scanning techniques used in the study of infection.

PMID: 6826600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1850. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1983 Mar;65(3):366-70.

Frictional torque in surface and conventional hip replacement.

Ma SM, Kabo JM, Amstutz HC.

The frictional torque of the Trapezoidal-28 total hip replacement and the Tharies
SR-3 and SR-5 surface replacements were measured in the University of California 
at Los Angeles hip-joint simulator in calf serum. Loads of as much as 890 newtons
were applied while the femoral component oscillated through a 60-degree arc at
forty cycles per minute. Frictional torque, as measured by a ring transducer at a
fixed distance from the center of rotation, was seen to diminish as the thickness
of the polyethylene increased and was found to be relatively proportional to the 
diameter of the femoral component. The torques measured in this study were found 
to be twenty to 100 times smaller than the static torques to failure for
acetabular fixation that have been reported in the literature. Finally, no
permanent deformation of the thin acetabular shells attributable to the cementing
process was apparent when the recommended technique of surgical insertion was
utilized.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Surface replacement components have been shown to
generate greater frictional torques at the acetabular bone-cement interface than 
do smaller-diameter conventional hip replacements. This indicates that the local 
mechanical-loading conditions of the hip joint are not the same for both types of
replacements, and this should be considered when selecting the type of
arthroplasty for an individual patient.

PMID: 6826599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1851. J Clin Invest. 1983 Mar;71(3):644-54.

Regulation of the fasting enterohepatic circulation of bile acids by the
migrating myoelectric complex in dogs.

Scott RB, Strasberg SM, El-Sharkawy TY, Diamant NE.

The purpose of this study was to correlate the fasting enterohepatic circulation 
(EHC) of bile acids with the migrating myoelectric complex. Four dogs were
surgically provided with a functional cholecystectomy, a duodenal cannula for
direct vision cannulation of the common bile duct, and 12 bipolar electrodes
implanted from stomach to terminal ileum. Bile was collected in equal-volume,
timed aliquots over 6 to 10 h. Aliquots were sampled and either returned to the
duodenum for study of the intact EHC, or collected and retained in order to study
the time course of the bile acid pool washout. In the washout experiments boluses
of radiolabeled taurocholic acid were instilled into the duodenum before and
after duodenal phase III of the migrating motor or myoelectric complex (MMC). In 
another group of experiments the bile acid pool was washed out and during a
continuous duodenal infusion of taurocholic acid bile was collected to study the 
pattern of hepatic secretion.RESULTS: (a) In all experiments, a single broad peak
of bile flow and bile acid secretion occurred at 35-55% of the MMC migration
time. At this time the MMC had migrated to a point 70-85% of the distance along
the small intestine. (b) During bile acid pool washout the peak of bile flow and 
bile acid secretion occurred with the distal migration of the first MMC and then 
bile flow and bile acid secretion rates decreased to a minimum and stabilized.
(c) In bile acid pool washout experiments the radiolabeled bile acids instilled
into the duodenum prior to duodenal phase III were secreted and peaked with peak 
endogenous bile acid secretion. The secretion of radiolabeled bile acids
instilled into the duodenum after duodenal phase III was delayed until the
subsequent cycle of the MMC. 88% of the bile acid pool collected over 6 h was
secreted during the distal migration of the first MMC (2.4 +/- 0.4 h). (d) After 
bile acid pool washout and during continuous duodenal infusion of taurocholic
acid, hepatic bile flow and bile acid secretion continued to fluctuate with the
same pattern observed with the EHC intact.
CONCLUSIONS: (a) In the fasting state, the transport of intestinal bile acids to 
the liver is pulsatile rather than continuous and is determined by the MMC.
Maximum hepatic secretion occurs when phase III of the MMC propels the
intraluminal bile acid pool to its site of absorption in the distal small bowel. 
(b) The "housekeeping" action of the MMC is very efficient and clears 88% of the 
6-h washout bile acid pool in one pass.

PMCID: PMC436914
PMID: 6826728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1852. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Mar;84(3):179-85.

[Immunological effect of splenectomy in tumor-bearing rat].

[Article in Japanese]

Saji S, Sugiyama Y, Miya K, Oshita H, Yokoyama Y, Yamamoto S, Takekoshi T, Sakata
K.

Immunologic merit and demerit of splenectomy were studied, using experimental
model in rat.ANIMALS: SD rat. Tumor: Metastasizing Rat's Mammary Tumor No. 1
(MRMT-1) originally induced by 3-MC administration to SD rat. Experimental study:
Splenectomy was done on day before and after subcutaneous inoculation of 200mg of
MRMT-1 at the back of 4 week-old female SD rats. Tumor growth following
splenectomy and immunological competency of rat's peripheral lymphocytes, spleen 
cells and thymus cells was investigated and following results were obtained. When
splenectomy was done pre-operatively or on the 2nd or 14th day after tumor
inoculation, subsequent tumor growth was inhibited, however, when it was done on 
the 7th day after the inoculation, tumor enhancement and shortening of survival
period were observed. When it was done on the 21st day, tumor growth was almost
the same as in the rats without splenectomy. The results of cpm values and SI
ratio of PHA-induced blastogenesis, and NK-activity indicated that immunological 
competency of spleen cells of tumor bearers was reduced during the early
tumor-bearing period and the late tumor bearing period, while it was increased in
the middle tumor bearing period. Tumor growth following splenectomy was
considered to be controlled by immunological competency of spleen cells. Thus, it
may not be unreasonable that tumor growth is inhibited on some occasions and it
is facilitated on other occasions after splenectomy.

PMID: 6674791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1853. Orthopedics. 1983 Mar 1;6(3):324-349. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19830301-06.

RADIOLOGIC CASE STUDY.

Schwartz CM, Demos TC.

DIAGNOSIS: Simple Bone Cyst.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24822856  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1854. Urologe A. 1983 Mar;22(2):76-82.

[Reflux persisting into adulthood. A clinical study].

[Article in German]

Herrlinger A, Sigel A.

1. Incidence: about 1/10 of all cases; 9/10 mature with/without scarring, even in
the case of complicated reflux. 2.SYMPTOMS: onset after age of 16; prior to this 
clinical silence or minimal symptomatology. 3. Grading and staging: all of them
may persist, low as well as high stages; scarring usually progressing; Grade I
reflux and Stage III scarring often occur together. 4.
INFECTION: female: rare between age of 10 and 15, as the bladder has become
stable, later on frequent again due to new instability caused by sexual activity.
5.
THERAPY: a. Conversion of complicated reflux into uncomplicated reflux
(infravesical relief of obstruction). b. Antirefluxiv operation when urinary
tract infections recur and the kidney is worth saving. c. Extirpative operation
when unilateral hypertension or grave renal scarring. 6.
PROGNOSIS: depends on uni-/bilaterality. 7. Operative results (Gregoir): good in 
cases of primary reflux, discouraging in cases of complicated reflux.

PMID: 6683028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1855. Hepatogastroenterology. 1983 Feb;30(1):15-20.

Comparison of six treatments of ascites in patients with liver cirrhosis. A
clinical trial.

Descos L, Gauthier A, Levy VG, Michel H, Quinton A, Rueff B, Fermanian J,
Fombonne E, Durbec JP.

A national multicenter study (34 centers) compared six treatments in 328 patients
with cirrhotic ascites. Excluded were patients with g.i. bleeding within the last
six months, chronic encephalopathy, cancer, tuberculosis or the following
complications persisting after three weeks: acute encephalopythy, fever greater
than 38 degrees C, infected ascites or biochemical abnormalities: blood urea
greater than 8 mmol/l, natremia less than 130 mmol/l, kaliemia less than 2.5 or
greater than 5.5 mmol/l, WBC greater than 12000 mm3, total bilirubin greater than
85.5 mumol/l. In each center patients were randomized into two treatment groups, 
each center using 2 of 6 proposed treatments: (1) Spironolactone and 500 mg Na
p.d (77 patients), (2) Spironolactone + furosemide or Moduretic (amiloride +
hydrochlorothiazide) and 500 mg Na p.d (80 patients), (3) Spironolactone +
Furosemide or Moduretic and unrestricted sodium diet (86 patients), (4)
Concentrated ascites reinfusion and 500 mg Na p.d. (36 patients), (5) Unmodified 
ascites reinfusion and 500 mg Na p.d. (23 patients), (6) Slow ascites drainage
and 500 mg Na p.d. (31 patients). Statistical analysis methods were X2, variance 
analysis and Spotvoll-Stoline and Dunn-Sidak tests. Before treatment, there was
no significant difference between the 6 groups.RESULTS: After one month of
treatment, no difference was found in the frequency of total or partial
regression of ascites, complications of cirrhosis, mortality, acceptability of
treatment. Mechanical treatments induced more rapid weight loss but more frequent
recurrence; comparison of groups 2 and 3 did not confirm any benefit associated
with unrestricted Na diet. Duration of treatment and hospitalization were shorter
in group 4 than in groups 3 and 6.

PMID: 6339343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1856. J Clin Invest. 1983 Feb;71(2):322-8.

Unanticipated stimulatory action of glucocorticoids on epithelial calcium
absorption. Effect of dexamethasone on rat distal colon.

Lee DB.

We studied the action of a glucocorticoid (GC, dexamethasone) and
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] on transepithelial calcium (Ca) transport 
in rat distal colon. GC 1.2 mg or 1,25(OH)2D3 270 ng were given daily for 4 d and
Ca fluxes were measured in vitro in the absence of electrochemical gradients
(Ussing technique).RESULTS: (a) Both 1,25(OH)2D3 and GC increased Ca absorptive
flux from 24 +/- 3 (SEM) to 50 +/- 1 and from 23 +/- 1 to 38 +/- 4 nmol/cm2 per
h, respectively (in each case n = 9, P less than 0.01); both steroid hormones had
no effect on Ca secretory flux. (b) GC, but not 1,25(OH)2D3 increased the
short-circuit current Isc) from 30 +/- 5; to 111 +/- 13 microA/cm2 (P less than
0.01), reflecting stimulation of electrogenic sodium (Na) transport. Choline
replacement of Na in the bathing buffer abolished both the Isc and the active Ca 
transport induced by GC, but has no effect on the 1,25(OH)2D3-stimulated active
Ca absorption. (c) When the buffer Ca concentration ([Ca]) on both sides of the
epithelium was reduced from 1.25 to 1.25 X 10(-2) mM, the GC-induced, but not the
1,25(OH)2D3-induced, stimulation in Ca absorption was abolished. This suggests
that the GC-stimulated Ca absorption may require a "threshold" Ca gradient across
the luminal membrane through which Ca influx occurs. Thus, contrary to the
current consensus, this study demonstrates that GC stimulates active Ca transport
and that this action is mediated through a mechanism dependent on the presence of
Na and a critical [Ca] in the ambient medium.

PMCID: PMC436870
PMID: 6822667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1857. J Clin Invest. 1983 Feb;71(2):192-200.

Resistance to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Association with heterogeneous defects in 
cultured skin fibroblasts.

Liberman UA, Eil C, Marx SJ.

We evaluated the interaction of [3H]1,25(OH)2D3 with skin fibroblasts cultured
from normal subjects or from affected members of six kindreds with rickets and
resistance to 1-alpha, 25(OH)2D [1,25(OH)2D]. We analyzed two aspects of the
radioligand interaction; nuclear uptake with dispersed, intact cells at 37
degrees C and binding at 0 degrees C with soluble extract ("cytosol") prepared
from cells disrupted in buffer containing 300 mM KCl and 10 mM sodium molybdate. 
With normal fibroblasts the affinity and capacity of nuclear uptake of
[3H]1,25(OH)2D3 were 0.5 nM and 10,300 sites per cell, respectively; for binding 
with cytosol these were 0.13 nM and 8,900 sites per cell, respectively. The
following four patterns of interaction with [3H]1,25(OH)2D3 were observed with
cells cultured from affected patients: (a) two kindreds; cytosol binding and
whole-cell nuclear uptake both unmeasurable; (b) one kindred, decreased capacity 
and normal affinity both for binding in cytosol and for nuclear uptake in whole
cells; (c) two kindreds, normal or nearly normal capacity and affinity of binding
in cytosol but unmeasurable whole-cell nuclear uptake; and (d) one kindred,
normal capacity and affinity of both cytosol binding and whole-cell nuclear
uptake. In all cases where the radioligand bound with high affinity in nucleus or
cytosol, the nucleus- or cytosol-associated radioligand exhibited normal
sedimentation velocity on sucrose density gradients. When two kindreds exhibited 
similar patterns (i.e. pattern a or c) with the analyses of cultured fibroblasts,
clinical features in affected members suggested that the underlying genetic
defects were not identical.IN CONCLUSION: (a) Fibroblasts cultured from human
skin manifest nuclear uptake and cytosol binding of [3H]1,25(OH)2D3 that is an
expression of the genes determining these processes in target tissues. (b) Based 
upon data from clinical evaluations and from analyses of cultured fibroblasts,
severe resistance to 1,25(OH)2D resulted from five or six distinct genetic
mutations in six kindreds.

PMCID: PMC436857
PMID: 6296200  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1858. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1983 Jan 29;113(4):126-37.

[Systemic chronic juvenile arthritis (Still's disease) in adults. Review of the
literature].

[Article in German]

Lämmle B, Schröder E, Steiger U.

The entire literature up to the present of 119 patients described as having adult
Still's disease is reviewed. Clinical, laboratory, radiological and histological 
findings, treatment, follow-up and outcome are presented. 1.CLINICAL FINDINGS:
All patients had arthralgias and/or myalgias. Seven did not fulfill strict
diagnostic criteria as they did not have overt arthritis. All had fever, and 93% 
had septic fever with temperature peaks of greater than or equal to 39 degrees C.
The characteristic maculo-papular rash was present in 89%. Other findings were
sore throat, lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly (in about 50% each), weight loss,
pericarditis, hepatomegaly, pleuritis (in 1/4 to 1/3 of the cases each). Less
frequent were alopecia, pneumonitis and abdominal pain (in less than 10% each).
2.
LABORATORY FINDINGS: The ESR was uniformly elevated. Over 90% of the patients
exhibited neutrophilic leukocytosis. Anemia, hypoalbuminemia and pathologic liver
function tests were found in 60-80%. IgM-RF and ANA were both negative in 95% of 
the patients and hence were not more frequently present than in the normal
population. 3. X-ray findings: There were no pathognomonic radiological
abnormalities of the joints. Nevertheless, the tendency to ankylosis, especially 
of the carpus, seems to be typical. A few patients developed severe destructive
lesions, especially of the hip and shoulder joints. 4. Biopsies: Many biopsies
were performed and did not reveal specific histologic abnormalities. Nonetheless,
they sometimes are necessary in order to exclude other disease entities. 5.
Treatment, follow-up, prognosis: Therapeutically high-dosage ASA and (if
necessary) systemic steroids are recommended for the acute phase. The efficacy of
this treatment is controversial. Even after successful control of the acute
disease, exacerbations are frequent for many years. Despite the initial optimism,
there is significant long-term morbidity due to recurrent disease flare-ups on
the one hand, and articular destructions in some patients on the other.

PMID: 6338586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1859. Acta Physiol Scand. 1983;119(2):147-58.

Segmental distribution of vascular resistances during ureteral occlusion. The
vasoconstrictive effects of angiotensin and CaCl2 differ from those of
catecholamines and renal nerve stimulation.

Vikse A, Holdaas H, Hartmann A, Kiil F.

Examinations of renal autoregulation and renin release suggest that
alpha-adrenergic agonists, in contrast to other vasoconstrictors, preferentially 
constrict the preglomerular arteries. To examine this hypothesis, experiments
were performed in anesthetized dogs during ureteral occlusion. At a ureteral
pressure (UP) of 100 mmHg the afferent arterioles are dilated and mechanical
constriction of the renal artery does not alter intrarenal vascular resistances. 
Whereas angiotensin and CaCl2 infused into the renal artery reduced renal blood
flow (RBF) by 25-30% without reducing UP, renal nerve stimulation reduced RBF and
UP in proportion. During angiotensin and catecholamine infusion, measurements of 
UP and intrarenal venous pressure permitted calculations of preglomerular,
efferent vascular and intrarenal venous resistances. Until RBF was reduced by
25%, angiotensin raised both preglomerular and efferent vascular resistances,
whereas norepinephrine and the alpha-adrenergic agonists, phenylephrine and
methoxamine, raised preglomerular more than efferent vascular resistance. When
RBF was reduced by more than 25%, all vasoconstrictors showed a similar pattern
with large increments both in preglomerular and efferent vascular
resistances.CONCLUSIONS: Humoral and nervous stimulation of alpha-adrenergic
receptors reduce glomerular capillary pressure by preferentially constricting the
preglomerular arteries and may affect renal autoregulation and renin release by
reducing the transmural pressure of the afferent arterioles.

PMID: 6140816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1860. Adv Neurol. 1983;37:305-12.

Abnormal involuntary movements: a study of dopaminergic receptor interaction.

Agnoli A, Ruggieri S, Del Roscio S, Baldassarre M, Bocola V, Denaro A.

Abnormal involuntary movements caused by chronic levodopa treatment in
Parkinson's disease, tardive dyskinesia resulting from long-term treatment with
neuroleptics, and Huntington's disease all seem to be related to functional
alteration and/or derangement of the DA/ACh systems. Recent data show the
presence of different types of DA receptors D1 and D2, which seem to be involved 
in the pathogenesis ofAIM: an alteration of their mutual equilibrium could
account for movements disorders. In addition, hypofunction of the ACh system also
seems to play a role in the pathogenesis of AIM. The purpose of this study was to
verify an alteration of DA/ACh relationships by evaluating the clinical responses
to pharmacological stimuli in patients affected by AIM secondary to chronic
levodopa and chronic neuroleptic treatment. The following drugs were used to
evaluate the DA receptors: lisuride (0.007 mg/kg i.v.) and tiapride (2.85 mg/kg
i.v.) as agonist and antagonist, respectively, at D2 receptors; oxopentphylline
(2.85 mg/kg i.v.) and alpha-flupenthixol (.057 mg/kg p.o.) as agonist and
antagonist, respectively, at D1 receptors. Levodopa plus carbidopa (250 mg + 25
mg) was also used. The ACh system was studied using orphenadrine (1.1 mg/kg i.v.)
as an antagonist and physostigmine (0.014 mg/kg i.v.) and neostigmine (0.26 mg/kg
i.v.) as agonists. Our results suggest an involvement mainly of D1 receptors in
the pathogenesis of TD, whereas D2 receptors seem to be important in the onset of
AIM after chronic levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease.

PMID: 6858777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1861. Adv Shock Res. 1983;10:161-71.

Indomethacin suppresses the early cardiodepressant factor released by endotoxin
in the rat: possible involvement of a prostacyclin-related material.

Carli A, Auclair MC, Vernimmen C.

The aim of this study was to determine if a prostaglandin-related material--in
particular prostacyclinlike substance--could explain our previous findings
showing that a sublethal dose of endotoxin caused the early release of a serum
lipid-soluble factor able to decrease various activities of cultured rat heart
cells (CRHC) through an intracellular calcium dysregulation. Sera were sampled
from rats 4 h after administration of 2 mg/kg E coli endotoxin (E) and their
cardiodepressant effect on CRHC determined by an electrooptical technique.
E-treated rat serum (ETRS) cardiodepressant effect was compared to that of 0.1
ng/ml prostacyclin (PGI2) and of 0.029 ng/ml nifedipine, a calcium antagonist.
The reversal effect of caffeine, a substance known for its positive inotropic
effect by increasing intracellular calcium availability at the sarcoplasmic
reticulum site, has been tested against the depressant effect of ETRS, PGI2, and 
nifedipine.RESULTS: 1) Compared to control, serum from endotoxin-treated rats
with or without imidazole pretreatment depressed contractility of CRHC in a
similar fashion, whereas pretreatment with indomethacin had a much less marked
effect; 2) PGI2, nifedipine, and ETRS depressed CRHC contractility in much the
same way; 3) caffeine reversed the depressant effect of PGI2 and ETRS, but was
much less effective against nifedipine effect. These results suggest that the
cardiodepressant effect of ETRS is mediated by a prostaglandinlike substance,
other than thromboxane, acting through reduced intracellular calcium
availability. PGI2 or PGI2-related material is consistent with such a depressant 
effect and such a mechanism.

PMID: 6349296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1862. Am J Physiol. 1983 Jan;244(1):F48-55.

Organic anion infusions exacerbate experimental acute renal failure.

Zager RA, Johannes GA, Sharma HM.

This investigation proposed to determine whether high organic anion (OA) loads
per nephron increase renal susceptibility to acute ischemic and nephrotoxic
injury. Anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats were infused with a control infusate,
Na2SO4, or an OA (hippurate, p-aminohippurate, cephalothin; 0.125-1.0 mg/min).
After a 40-min control period, acute renal injury was induced by either bilateral
renal pedicle cross-clamping (X25 min) or by HgCl2 administration (12 mg/kg
i.v.). Glomerular filtration rate (clearance of [125I]iothalamate) was determined
every 20 min before and after renal injury. Non-OA-infused rats lost 51 +/- 4%
(ischemia) and 40 +/- 4% (HgCl2) of control GFR. OA infusion exacerbated this
loss of renal function (ischemia, 89 +/- 2%; HgCl2, 84 +/- 4%). Renal histology
demonstrated that OA-treated acute renal failure (ARF) rats had more vacuolar
degeneration of proximal tubular cells (HgCl2, ischemia) and greater tubular
dilatation (ischemia) than did non-OA-treated ARF rats. These functional and
histologic responses to OA infusion were not OA dose dependent. Discontinuation
of OA infusion did not cause a subsequent rise in GFR. Na2SO4 infusion had no
detrimental effects on ischemic ARF. Control rats subjected to prolonged OA
infusion (1 mg/min X 5 h) maintained stable GFR and had normal renal histology.
ARF rats infused with low-dose cephalothin had terminal serum cephalothin
concentrations within a range commonly seen in humans.CONCLUSION: organic anion
infusions can exacerbate early functional and histologic parameters of
experimental ARF.

PMID: 6217755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1863. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1983;5(3):321-8.

Effect of captopril on blood pressure and on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
system in coarctation of the aorta.

Fallo F, Maragno I, Merola P, Mantero F.

To investigate the role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in
hypertension due to coarctation of the aorta (COA), upright mean arterial
pressure (MAP), plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma aldosterone (Aldo) were
determined before and 90 minutes after a single oral dose of captopril (25 mg) in
eight patients with COA and in fourteen with essential hypertension (EH). There
was no significant difference in MAP, PRA or Aldo values between the two groups
in baseline conditions. After captopril administration, MAP and Aldo decreased
significantly in both groups (p less than 0.01), whereas PRA showed a marked
increase in patients with COA (p less than 0.001) and no significant changes in
EH patients (from 1.5 +/- 2.2 to 49.7 +/- 9.8 and from 5.6 +/- 0.9 to 8 +/- 1.5
ng/ml/3h respectively).CONCLUSIONS: 1) MAP reduction and marked renin increase
after captopril in COA patients support the view that systemic hypertension in
COA is, at least in part, renin mediated and 2) the evaluation of PRA after
captopril could be helpful in the decision to proceed with more invasive
procedures in patients with suspicious clinical features of COA or with residual 
post-coarctectomy hypertension.

PMID: 6340859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1864. Int J Tissue React. 1983;5(1):1-10.

Effect of prostaglandin E1 in collagen disease patients with inflammatory skin
ulcer.

Tohjima T, Shiokawa Y.

Clinical, physiological and biochemical studies of PGE1 were done in a series of 
collagen disease patients with skin ulcer, in a foot varix patient with skin
ulcer as a non-inflammatory skin ulcer control, and in two diabetics without skin
ulcer as no skin ulcer controls. Intravenous infusions of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)
were given continuously at the dose of 1 ng/kg/min for 72 hours. Blood samples
were collected from the cubital vein, before, during, immediately after and at
seven days after PGE1 therapy. Platelet aggregations were studied by light
transmittance (PRP: modified by Born's method; whole blood: modified by Tohjima's
method). Platelet iPGE (immunoreactive PGE-like material) levels were assayed by 
radio-immunoassay. Essential fatty acid compositions of plasma, platelet and red 
cells, were analysed by gas chromatography. Results were as follows: (1) in all
cases, complete healing of skin ulcers was observed; (2) In most cases, skin
temperature increased during PGE1 treatment; (3) Platelet aggregation was higher 
during PGE1 treatment than before and was higher in PRP than in whole blood
during PGE1 treatment; (4) The platelet basal iPGE levels were significantly
decreased by PGE1 (P less than 0.025); (5) The plasma and platelet linoleic acid 
levels were significantly higher than before PGE1 treatment (plasma: P less than 
0.05, platelets: P less than 0.025); (6) Thrombocytosis of one case of MRA was
healed by the second PGE1 treatment.CONCLUSION: The inflammatory skin ulcers in
collagen diseases were healed completely by continuous intravenous infusion of
PGE1. This effect might be brought about by the suppression of PG metabolism,
especially in platelets.

PMID: 6683263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1865. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1983 Jan;56(1):53-9.

Perturbations of negative feedback sensitivity in agonadal patients undergoing
estrogen replacement therapy.

Maruca J, Kulin HE, Santner SJ.

Urinary gonadotropin excretion was measured in 30 patients with gonadal
dysgenesis, aged 2 months to 17 yr. Between bone ages 3-8 yr, mean FSH excretion 
(575 mIU/h) was elevated 8-fold in agonadal individuals compared to levels in
intact prepubertal girls; mean urinary LH (49 mIU/h) in agonadal patients during 
this time period was increased nearly 2-fold over results from normal prepubertal
females. Nine of 10 patients given 0.3 to 0.6 mg conjugated estrogen (Premarin)
daily to initiate puberty exhibited prompt suppression of urinary gonadotropin
levels from markedly elevated levels to within or very close to the normal
prepubertal range. Such a response was found in only two of seven patients given 
0.15 mg of the same drug. All instances of suppression were followed by escape
from low levels of gonadotropin excretion as treatment was continued. Prior
exposure to exogenous or endogenous estrogen markedly reduced the suppressive
potential of treatment with 0.3 or 0.6 mg Premarin. A favorable advance of bone
maturation in relation to chronological age was achieved by the administration of
0.15 mg Premarin daily, a dose which caused a satisfactory onset of secondary sex
characteristics.IN CONCLUSION: 1) a component of gonadotropin restraint in
midchildhood is supplied by the ovary; 2) adult castrate levels of gonadotropins 
are achieved in the agonadal patient of peripubertal age in the presence of a
highly sensitive negative feedback axis between sex hormones and gonadotropins;
3) sex steroids themselves may modify the gonadotropin-gonadal negative feedback 
axis in patients with gonadal dysgenesis; and 4) puberty may be initiated
favorably with conjugated estrogens in an oral dose of 0.15 mg daily.

PMID: 6292256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1866. J Mal Vasc. 1983;8(4):329-33.

[Place of peridural anesthesia in aorto-iliac surgery. Preliminary comparative
study apropos of 32 patients].

[Article in French]

Thierry M, Le Corre A, Haddad C, Becade P.

Two groups of patients were studied: Twelve retroperitoneal iliac, and 20
abdominal aortic surgery with aortic clamping and bypass graft. Anesthesia was:
Pure thoracic epidural T10-T11 for all iliac and 3 aortic surgery. Epidural
thoracic plus light general anesthesia for 12 aortic surgery. Classic balanced
anesthesia for 5 patients only. Rate of injection of anesthetic mixture and
pressure measurement in epidural space are described.RESULTS: Hemodynamic changes
during surgery are less in the epidural group. Post operative respiratory
assistance was necessary only in the general anesthesia group, and respiratory
care easier in the epidural group. Post operative peristalsis was obvious the
first post operative day after epidural anesthesia, the fourth day after general 
anesthesia.

PMID: 6663204  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1867. J Neurochem. 1983 Jan;40(1):160-7.

Kinetics of transport and phosphorylation of 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in rat
brain.

Crane PD, Pardridge WM, Braun LD, Oldendorf WH.

The kinetics of transport across the blood-brain barrier and metabolism in brain 
(hemisphere) of [14C]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) were compared to that of
[3H]2-deoxy-D-glucose (DG) and D-glucose in the pentobarbital-anesthetized adult 
rat. Saturation kinetics of transport were measured with the brain uptake index
(BUI) method. The BUI for FDG was 54.3 +/- 5.6. Nonlinear regression analysis
gave a Km of 6.9 +/- 1.2 mM and a Vmax of 1.70 +/- 0.32 mumol/min/g. The Ki for
glucose inhibition of FDG transport was 10.7+/-44 mM. The kinetic constants of
influx (k1) and efflux (k2) for FDG were calculated from the Km2, Vmax, and
glucose concentrations of the hemisphere and plasma (2.3 +/- 0.2 mumol/g and 9.9 
+/- 0.4 mM, respectively). The transport coefficient (k1 FDG/k1 glucose)was 1.67 
+/- 0.07 and the phosphorylation constant was 0.55 +/- 0.16. The predicted lumped
constant for FDG was 0.89, whereas the measured hexose utilization index for FDG 
was 0.85 +/- 0.16.CONCLUSION: The value for the lumped constant can be predicted 
on the basis of the known kinetic constants of FDG and glucose transport and
metabolism, as well as brain and plasma glucose levels. Knowledge of the lumped
constant is crucial in interpreting data obtained from 18FDG analysis of regional
glucose utilization in human brain in pathological states. We propose that the
lumped constant will rise to a maximum equal to the transport coefficient for FDG
under conditions of transport limitation (hypoglycemia) or elevated glycolysis
(ischemia, seizures), and will fall to a minimum equal to the phosphorylation
coefficient during phosphorylation limitation (extreme hyperglycemia).

PMID: 6848656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1868. J Orthop Res. 1983;1(2):144-52.

An experimental polyarthritis associated with systemic antigen excess in immune
rabbits.

Kawai K, Scudamore A, Cooke TD.

Rabbits were immunized with bovine serum albumin and later challenged
intraperitoneally with the same antigen. Polyarthritis, characterized by synovial
lining layer hyperplasia and leukocyte infiltration, was conditional on animals
having excess free serum antigen in the presence of circulating immune complexes 
(IC). Nonimmune controls did not develop polyarthritis following antigen
challenge. Data are presented that strongly suggest that synovitis was triggered 
by deposition of IC in the synovia. During the chronic phase of polyarthritis the
synovium was clear of antigen but there was marked retention within joint
fibrocartilage, suggesting that antigen, immobilized locally, may maintain the
chronic synovitis.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: There are several animal models in which
experimental arthritis has been induced by antigenic challenge. The resemblance
of the lesions to those of human rheumatoid arthritis has provided the rationale 
for studying the immune events associated with the onset of acute and maintenance
of chronic phases of experimental arthritis.

PMID: 6679857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1869. J Urol (Paris). 1983;89(4):243-6.

[Bladder tumors treated with radical cystectomy. Results of 78 cases].

[Article in French]

Perrin P, Charroin P, Durand L.

The authors present the results of 78 radical cystectomies for bladder tumour,
followed up for at least 3 years. All the patients received preoperative pelvic
radiotherapy (in general a flash of 5 Gys). Urinary derivation was of
transintestinal cutaneous ureterostomy type. Surgery was followed by additional
radiotherapy of 50 Gys in 9 patients and chemotherapy (adriamycin, Vehem and
cis-platinum) in 6.RESULTS: stages 0 and A - 100% survival; stage B - 74%; stage 
C - 29% and stage D - 30%. Amongst the patients dying as a result of their
carcinoma, 25% stage B, 36% stage C and 20% stage D had local recurrences. With
regard to the prevention of recurrences, heavy preoperative radiotherapy is not
more effective than flash radiotherapy of 5 Gy. For stage D and C patients
together, overall survival was 50% at 3 years. Four stage D patients appear to be
cured at 3 years, i.e. 17% of the stage D cases. This proves the possibility of
"cure" of stage D disease by extended excision and thorough lymph node
dissection. Adjuvant chemotherapy may certainly play a role.

PMID: 6886460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1870. Nephrologie. 1983;4(4-5):210-5.

[Arterial pressure, heart rate and systolic time intervals in patients on
long-term hemodialysis dialyzed with a bath containing acetate or bicarbonate].

[Article in French]

Lefebvre A, Bochet J, Safar M.

Blood pressure (BP), body weight, heart rate and systolic time intervals (STI)
were measured every 6 months during 18 months in a group of 25 patients
hemodialyzed with bicarbonate (B), as compared with 25 patients dialyzed with
acetate (A). Dialysate Na remained at 140mmol/l. During the dialysis session, the
decrease in BP were similar in the 2 groups but tachycardia was observed
exclusively with A. The ratio between pre-ejection period (PEP) and left
ventricular ejection time (LVET) increased during dialysis similarly in both
groups. However predialytic PEP/LVET increased in the A group and decreased in
the B group, becoming significantly lower in the Bi group at 18 months. With Bi, 
the loss of weight was significantly greater during the Hd session for the same
decrease in blood pressure.CONCLUSION: 1) During dialysis, the increase of PEP
and PEP/LVET seems to be directly connected with the weight loss, and is the same
in both groups. 2) The long term decrease of predialysis PEP and PEP/LVET seen
with the B group can be explain by a greater degree of water inflation and by an 
improvement of myocardial contractility.

PMID: 6664430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1871. Nephrologie. 1983;4(3):129-33.

[Hyperaluminemia in chronic hemodialysis patients. Evaluation of the respective
roles of dialysate aluminum and oral aluminum hydroxide].

[Article in French]

Tahiri Y, Moriniere P, Jaudon MC, Dkhissi H, Rosa A, Fournier A.

In order to evaluate the respective role of dialysate aluminium and of oral
aluminium hydroxide in the occurrence of hyperaluminemia in patients on chronic
hemodialysis, plasma aluminium was measured in 19 of them selected for their
reliability, before and then 6 and 12 months after the use of a double step
reverse osmosis system which allowed to have dialysate aluminium always below 20 
micrograms/l, whereas before it was between 20 and 120 micrograms/l. No
significant decrease of their plasma aluminium concentration was observed (81 +/-
SEM 12, 81 +/- 12 and 75 +/- 12 micrograms/l respectively). But a significant
correlation between plasma aluminium and the total or daily prescribed dose of Al
(OH)3 was found before and after 12 months of reverse osmosis. A significant
negative correlation was observed between plasma aluminium and the mean
corpuscular volume, before and 12 months after reverse osmosis. No correlation
was found between plasma aluminium and the plasma PTH levels or with the
administration of active vitamin D metabolites.CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest
that oral Al (OH)3 plays a predominant role in the hyperaluminemia of
hemodialyzed patients and that hyperaluminemia may contribute to their microcytic
anemia.

PMID: 6633778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1872. Neuroradiology. 1983;24(5):287-91.

Lung metastasis of a meningioma.

Wende S, Bohl J, Schubert R, Schulz V.

Case report of a 35-year-old male patient. 1976: operation for a falx-meningioma.
1981: meningioma recurrence and further intracranial meningiomas.HISTOLOGY: 1976 
and 1981 endotheliomatous meningioma: no signs of malignancy. Prior to the 2nd
operation in 1981 a lung tumor was diagnosed for the first time. HISTOLOGY of the
lung tumor: endotheliomatous meningioma, same histology as in cerebral
meningiomas.

PMID: 6835520  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1873. Proc Eur Dial Transplant Assoc. 1983;20:520-9.

Plasma renin activity, blood uric acid and plasma volume in pregnancy-induced
hypertension.

Fievet P, Pleskov L, Desailly I, Carayon A, de Fremont JF, Coevoet B, Comoy E,
Demory JE, Verhoest P, Boulanger JC, et al.

Plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma aldosterone (PA), blood uric acid (BUA),
plasma concentrations of catecholamines (Pcat) and plasma volume (PV) were
measured simultaneously in 24 patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH).
This hypertensive group was divided into labile (LH) and persistent hypertension 
(PH) groups according to the response of their blood pressure to home bed rest.
Compared to normal theoretical values, PV was decreased in both hypertensive
groups (LH = -7%; PH = -14%). Compared to a control group (C) of 16 normotensive 
pregnant women, PRA was higher in LH and lower in PH whereas PA was lower in both
hypertensive groups. BUA was higher than in C in both hypertensive groups. No
difference in PCat was found between the three groups. In the PH group negative
correlations were found between BUA and PRA, as well as between BUA and PV but no
correlation between PRA and PV nor between Pcat and BUA were found.IN CONCLUSION:
LH and PH are two pathophysiologically different entities in PIH. In PH renin
secretion is not appropriate to hypovolaemia and therefore not primarily involved
in the pathogenesis of hypertension. Hypovolaemia may play a role in the increase
of BUA in PIH.

PMID: 6361757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1874. Prog Pediatr Surg. 1983;16:29-37.

Thyroid carcinoma in childhood.

Pfister-Goedeke L, Stauffer UG.

Thyroid cancer in childhood is a rare and slowly progressive but nevertheless
malignant disease that has a high incidence of nodal metastasis. Six children
aged 8 to 15 years with well-differentiated thyroid carcinomas were treated at
the Children's University Hospital of Zurich between 1960 and 1979. Diagnostic,
therapeutic and follow-up procedures are discussed. All 6 patients are alive and 
without recurrences 1 to 16 years after diagnosis. 1.SURGICAL TREATMENT: Because 
of the frequency of intrathyroidal metastases, we prefer lobectomy on the
affected side with resection of the isthmus and subtotal strumectomy on the
opposite side, with preservation of the parathyroids. Grossly involved groups of 
nodes are resected. 2. Radiation therapy: Surgery is followed by external
irradiation to the neck and mediastinum in cases of extrathyroidal extension of
the tumour. 3. After I-131 ablation of remnant thyroid tissue, which permits the 
diagnosis of distant functioning metastases, several courses of radioiodine are
applied as long as any functioning metastatic tissue is recognized. 4.
Replacement therapy and suppression of endogenous stimulation by TSH are achieved
by optimal hormonal treatment during the first years with triiodothyronine and
later, after I-131 treatment has been concluded, with 1-thyroxine. 5. Lifelong
follow-up is necessary, as late recurrences are possible.

PMID: 6878726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1875. Scand J Clin Lab Invest Suppl. 1983;165:111-4.

Total and ionized calcium levels during open heart surgery with two different
pump priming solutions.

Vogel H, Krüger-Franke M, Lühr HG, Franke N, Finsterer U, Welz A.

Changes of total (Ca) and ionized Ca-levels (Ca2+) were studied during open heart
surgery in 18 patients. 9 patients (group A) had only crystalloid solutions as
pump priming, the other 9 patients (group B) had 500 ml of citrated whole blood
in the priming solution. For assessment of hemodilution hct and total plasma
protein and plasma albumin were determined. Measurements were done
preoperatively, before and after systemic heparinisation, during and after
extracorporeal circulation (ECC) and on the first postoperative day.RESULTS: 1.
Anticoagulation with 375 U/kg BW heparin had no effect on ionized calcium levels.
2. With onset of ECC (Ca) decreased by 30% in group A and by 20% in group B.
(Ca2+), however, decreased by 20% in group A and by 35% in group B. The
percentage of ionized calcium increased by 15% in group A whereas it decreased by
the same amount in group B. This difference is contributed to the calcium binding
effect of citrate added to pump priming in group B. Mechanisms of the relative
increase of ionized calcium during ECC in group A, however, remain to be studied.

PMID: 6578565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1876. Soz Praventivmed. 1983;28(6):318-20.

[Methadone--resocialization of heroin-dependent patients].

[Article in German]

Renggli R, Ladewig D.

Methadon is a synthetic morphin used as a substitution therapy for heroin
addicts. 21 patients were selected according the usual swiss indications and
observed over 1 year.TREATMENT: daily methadon, weekly psychotherapy and
unexpected urine controls.
PROBLEMS: side effects, lack of medical care and control and the fact that it is 
a long term treatment for years, troublesome and often merely palliative.

PMID: 6666360  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1877. Ultrasound Med Biol. 1983;Suppl 2:325-30.

Diagnosis of dissecting aortic aneurysm by two dimensional echocardiography:
experience with 58 patients.

Roudaut R, Billès MA, Gateau P, Besse P, Dallocchio M.

Recent improvements in surgical technics have dramatically changed the outcome of
patients with aortic dissection (AD). The aim of this work is to evaluate the
reliability of two dimensional echocardiography (2DE) in the diagnosis of AD. The
2DE was recorded in all patients with a systematic approach in order to visualize
the entire aorta (Ao). 58 cases were studied in a three years period. At the
beginning of this study we validate 2DE by comparison with angiography (angio) in
14 of our first patients: the 2 angio criteria (dilatation, abnormal intraluminal
image) have been found on 2DE in 12 pts (92%), with intraluminal image) have been
found on 2DE in 12 pts (92%), with no significant difference between internal
diameter of Ao on angio and 2DE. In our experience with 58 pts a positive
diagnosis was possible in 90% of AD type I and only 18% of AD type III.IN
CONCLUSION: 2DE is a practical and valuable method for the assessment of type I
and II AD. Two 2DE criteria must be present at the same anatomical level
(dilatation, abnormal intraluminal echo). In these conditions we have been able
to avoid aortography in 26 of our last patients with type I and II.

PMID: 6545740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1878. Vision Res. 1983;23(2):161-9.

Separate motion aftereffects from each eye and from both eyes.

Anstis S, Duncan K.

Monocular and binocular motion aftereffects (MAEs) are described, which were
contingent upon which eye(s) was (were) exposed to the adapting motion. Subjects 
viewed clockwise rotation of a patterned disc with their left eye, alternating
every 5 sec with anticlockwise rotation seen with their right eye, for a 10-min
adapting period.RESULT: they saw an anticlockwise motion aftereffect with their
left eye, and a clockwise MAE with their right eye. These monocular MAEs lasted
for only 2-20 sec, but could be elicited repeatedly over a 2-6 min period, and
could still be re-elicited two hours later. In a second experiment, subjects
adapted for 10 min to the following cycle of 5-sec rotations: left eye,
clockwise: right eye, clockwise: and both eyes together, anticlockwise.
RESULT: they saw an anticlockwise MAE with their left eye only or with their
right eye only, and a clockwise MAE when both eyes were open. A model of
monocular and binocular inputs to motion sensitive neural channels is proposed.

PMID: 6868391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1879. Zentralbl Chir. 1983;108(10):599-604.

[Surgical treatment of sigmoid diverticulitis].

[Article in German]

Kricke E.

From 1972 to 1982 113 patients suffering from diverticulitis of the sigmoid colon
were admitted to our hospital. 63 patients underwent conservative-, 50 patients
surgical therapy (23 emergency procedures, 27 elective operations).COMPLICATIONS:
8 times free perforation, 15 times retroperitoneal abscess formation, 6 times
haemorrhage, 3 times fistulae to the urinary bladder, 9 patients suffered from
acute obstruction of the bowel. The infectious focus should be removed completely
as early as possible. As an emergency procedure Hartmann's operation is
recommended, this means resection of the sigmoid colon and temporal colostomy. In
this way the patients life is not endangered by an anastomosis. Only in elective 
operations we combine resection of the sigmoid colon and anastomosis as one-stage
procedure.

PMID: 6880451  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1880. Zentralbl Chir. 1983;108(22):1407-13.

[Problems and limitations in reconstructing peripheral artery injuries].

[Article in German]

Haug M, Faisal K, Müller-Wiefel H.

Between September 1975 and November 1982 we performed the repair on 75 injured
peripheral arteries. In 57% a full restitution could be achieved, in 13% the
extremity was saved with a resting functional deficit, in 20% an amputation was
required, 10% had a lethal outcome. - Causes of failure are: 1) prolonged
ischemia, 2) insufficient primary repair, 3) associated peripheral vascular
lesions, 4) local and general revascularisation syndrome. -CONCLUSIONS: 1.
Operative management of peripheral arterial injuries should start without delay. 
2. Any emergency procedure should be definitive, 3. Arterial catheterism should
not be done (for arteriography or dilatation) in cases, where the peripheral
vasculature is obliterated, 4. In case of a revascularisation-syndrome an
immediate amputation may avoid the fatal outcome.

PMID: 6666416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1881. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1982 Dec;9(12):2089-96.

[Intraoperative radiotherapy of stomach cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Satomura K, Inamoto S, Honda K, Takahashi M.

Clinical results of intraoperative radiotherapy for gastric cancer were reported.
One hundred and five cases of gastric cancer were treated by intraoperative
radiotherapy. Indications for the intraoperative radiotherapy were determined as 
follows: 1) The primary lesion (tumor) located at the level of gastric corpus or 
antrum (M, A); 2) At least, the primary tumor should be resected; 3) Neither
liver metastasis nor peritoneal dissemination was noticed; 4) Lymph node
metastasis were limited to the second group (less than N3); 5) Cases of which
tumor-infiltration-depth reached to the serosal surface (S3) of the posterior
gastric wall and infiltrated to the pancreatic capsule were included. However,
infiltrations to the serosal surface of the anterior gastric wall were not
subjected to the treatment, because of having peritoneal disseminations.
Irradiation of 2800-4000 rad of electron beam from betatron was performed after
resection of the stomach and the regional lymph node as possible. Five-year
survival rate was studied on 58 cases (consisting 5 cases of stage I, 27 cases of
stage II, 12 cases of stage III and 14 cases of stage IV). Comparisons were done 
with the cases receiving surgical operation only.RESULTS: Whatever the stage of
the patient was, 3-year survival rate was found to be better in the radiotherapy 
group than that of the control group (treated surgical resection only). Five year
survival rate of the stages III and IV in the radiotherapy group was better than 
the control group. Unfavorable side effects were observed in 4 cases out of 105
cases. In one case, penetration of postoperative peptic ulcer into the irradiated
aortic wall was found by autopsy. Two cases of bile duct stenosis and one case of
ileus due to acutely developed peritonitis carcinomatosa were experienced. In
conclusion, intraoperative radiotherapy immediately after surgical resection for 
the treatment of gastric cancer was found to be an effective method. The most
effective application of the method appears to be to cases of stage II and III
without liver metastasis and peritoneal disseminations (H0P0, M, A).

PMID: 7184389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1882. Pathol Res Pract. 1982 Dec;175(4):392-403.

Nodular and tumorlike gliomatosis peritonei with endometriosis caused by a mature
ovarian teratoma.

Bässler R, Theele C, Labach H.

Peritoneal glial implants are found in childhood, adolescence as well as in young
women and are the result of a ruptured capsule of mature or immature teratoma of 
the ovary. The implants of glia nodules have a distinct gross feature and are
localized mostly in the parietal and visceral peritoneum, in the omentum and in
the space of Douglas. According to the review by Robboy and Scully (1970),
seventeen other cases have been reported.CASE REPORT: A ten year old girl was
operated on for a benign cystic teratoma of the right ovary. After an interval of
12-13 years, two laparotomies were performed because of recurring pains,
adhesions of the abdomen and the formation of tumor-shaped resistances. Biopsies 
from both operations taken from the peritoneum, omentum and space of Douglas
yielded disseminated gliomatosis and endometriosis. The uniqueness of this case
lies in the length of the interval of 12 years after the operation, the size of
the gliomatosis-tumor in the pelvis as well as its regressive changes. X-ray
examination of this tissue revealed diffuse calcification. A partially
infiltrative growth of the glial mass into fat tissue was determined despite the 
low grading of the implant. The size of the tumor-like infiltration can be
understood as a result of growth and confluence of several nodes. As an
expression of a local defense reaction, there was found at one location on the
circumference of a glial node an intense lymphofollicular infiltration. The
combination of gliomatosis and endometriosis has not been observed up until now. 
The formation of endometriod glands could be the result of a metaplasia of the
subcoelomic mesenchyme. Peritoneal gliomatosis can be considered to be
implantation metastases of ovarian teratoma with varying degrees of maturity.

PMID: 7167411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1883. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 1982 Dec;53(5):266-73.

[Projective movements in emotionally comfortable and uncomfortable states].

[Article in Japanese]

Monzen T.

Aiming to examine the function of projection as a part of human cognitive
behavior, this study focused on studying how an emotional factor affects
projective movements by analyzing the quality of the movements.SUBJECTS: Sixty
junior college women. Visual stimuli: Sixteen unambiguous figures. Emotional
states: As induced by comfortable, uncomfortable sounds, or neutral state. The
subjects were randomly divided into three emotionally different groups. Then
stimulus slides were projected in a random order on a screen. Each stimulus was
evaluated in terms of the amount, speed, and direction of its projectively
perceived movement.
RESULTS: 1. A highly positive correlation was found between the emotional state
and the amount of projected movements. 2. With regard to the speed and direction 
of projected movements, significant differences were found among the three groups
of subjects and among the stimuli.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. When considering the effect of emotional states on projected
movements, the quality (speed and direction) of the movements, in addition to
their amount alone, should be taken into account. 2. Under emotionally
uncomfortable conditions, the speed and direction are mutually complementary as a
means of protection against anxiety.

PMID: 7169707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1884. Yakubutsu Seishin Kodo. 1982 Dec;2(2):69-76.

[Effects of zotepine, a psychotropic agent, on the serum uric acid level of
inpatients at a psychiatric hospital].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshida H, Kaiya H, Kondo T, Sanpei F, Takeda N, Takeuchi K.

Serum uric acid levels were examined and compared to diagnostic groups of
inpatients of a mental hospital. An action lowering serum uric acid level of
zotepine was further evaluated in those patients.RESULTS: (1) In patients
receiving some kind of psychotropic drugs, except for zotepine, mean serum uric
acid level of patients with epilepsy in both sexes was significantly lowered in
comparison with that of schizophrenia. Mean serum uric acid levels of male and
female patients with alcoholism and organic brain disease were higher than that
of schizophrenia without any statistical significance. (2) Mean serum uric acid
level of patients treated with various psychotropic drugs, except for zotepine,
was higher than that of patients receiving zotepine. (3) Zotepine decreased serum
uric acid level parallel with its dosage (r=0.70, p less than 0.001) with a mean 
reduced rate of 54.1% (p less than 0.001), when serum uric acid levels of 32
patients were examined 3 times over 3 months before and during zotepine
administration, respectively. (4) Maximum reduction of serum uric acid level
occurred in 3-6 days following zotepine application. Controversely, it takes
about 4 weeks to recover baseline level of serum uric acid after stopping
zotepine administration. (5) Zotepine had no significant effect not only on the
results of creatinine clearance test, but also on BUN level. However, it
significantly increased level of uric acid clearance, and rate between uric acid 
clearance and creatinine clearance. The rate of uric acid clearance vs creatinine
clearance correlated with the dosage of zotepine given. Zotepine is thought to
decrease serum uric acid level via selective blocking of tubular reabsorption of 
uric acid in the kidney.

PMID: 6141682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1885. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1982 Nov 19;107(46):1747-50.

[Effects of long-term ventilation on the bronchial system. Bronchoscopic,
cytologic and microbiological findings].

[Article in German]

Worth H, Goeckenjan G, Hagedorn HJ, Pfitzer P.

The effects of longterm ventilation were evaluated in 50 patients from a medical 
intensive care unit. The bronchial tract was investigated using repeated
bronchoscopy and assessed by semiquantitative scoring. Prior to each endoscopy
tracheal secretions were obtained for microbiological and cytological evaluation,
in 20 patients histological analysis of the bronchial mucosa was done in
addition.RESULTS: 1. Within 24-48 hours after initiation of respirator
ventilation alterations of the bronchial mucosa occur. The extent progresses
rapidly, however no further increase of progression is to be observed after
ventilation of approximately 150-200 hours. 2. Endoscopic assessment of the
severity of mucosal changes correlates well with cytological and histologic
results. 3. In 34 patients microbial agents could be demonstrated. In 8 of them
mucosal changes preceded demonstration of microbial organisms. The extent of
mucosal changes is independent of category or count of pathogen. Endoscopic
follow-up investigations of the bronchial tract affected by long-term ventilation
serve both direct bronchial clearing and control of position of the intubation
tube as well as assessment of mucosal alterations and control of treatment of
bronchial infection.

PMID: 7140555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1886. Pflugers Arch. 1982 Nov 11;395(3):196-200.

Reexamination of the interplay between dibasic amino acids and
I-cystine/L-cysteine during tubular reabsorption.

Völkl H, Silbernagl S.

Interactions of L-cysteine (= cys) and L-cystine (= cys-cys), and dibasic amino
acids were investigated during tubular reabsorption by microperfusion experiments
in rat kidney. The following results were obtained: The dibasic amino acids
L-ornithine and L-canavanine were strong inhibitors of cys-cys reabsorption. The 
arginine analogue agmatine and the lysine analogue 2,6-diaminopimelic acid had no
effect. The oxidizing agent azodicarboxylic acid bis-dimethylamide (= diamide)
decreased the fractional reabsorption rate (= FRR) of cys-cys (0.08 mmol X l-1)
from 84% to 60% when present in the perfusion fluid in a concentration of 10 mmol
X l-1. Diamide did not affect the reabsorption of a dibasic amino acid
(L-arginine) nor of a neutral amino acid (L-phenylalanine). The FRR of L-arginine
and L-ornithine could not be decreased by adding cys-cys to the perfusion fluid. 
Cys had just as little effect on the reabsorption of L-arginine like agmatine. In
the presence of alpha-aminoisobutyric acid a slight reduction of the FRR of
L-arginine could be observed. The dibasic amino acids L-arginine and L-canavanine
had no influence on the FRR of cys when dithioerythritol was added to the
perfusion fluid.CONCLUSIONS: More than one site exists for tubular reabsorption
of cys-cys. One of these may be shared by dibasic amino acids. Cys is reabsorbed 
by a separate and specific transport system. A reduction of cys-cys to cys takes 
place rather in the tubular cell than in the lumen.

PMID: 7155793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1887. Dig Dis Sci. 1982 Nov;27(11):1011-4.

Diagnosis of pancreatic abscess via percutaneous aspiration.

Barkin JS, Pereiras R, Hill M, Levi J, Isikoff M, Rogers AI.

The pre-operative diagnosis of a pancreatic abscess was not considered in a
comprehensive review in 1972. However, advances in technology (Ultrasound--US,
Computed Tomography--CT) has allowed guided percutaneous needle aspiration (PNA) 
of suspected pancreatic lesions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the
safety and diagnostic ability of PNA to differentiate acute pancreatic
inflammatory masses from pancreatic abscess (PA). Thirteen patients underwent PNA
after US or CT revealed an acute pancreatic inflammatory mass (12/13 cystic). One
patient underwent a second aspiration. Clinical features T degrees--101.3 degrees
F mean (13/13), leukocytosis 14,400 cu/mm (11/13). Aspirated material was
gram-stained and examined for bacteria and leukocytes and cultured.RESULTS: PNA
was accomplished successfully in all patients. Aspirate revealed bacteria in nine
and pancreatic abscess was confirmed at surgery (8) or post-mortem exam (1). Four
of five patients in whom no bacteria were visualized had medical resolution, the 
fifth had continued T degree and underwent a second aspiration which diagnosed a 
PA. PA contained moderate to large number of PML via aspiration.
CONCLUSIONS: PNA provides a potentially important and safe diagnosis adjunct to
earlier accurate differential diagnosis of pancreatic inflammatory masses from
pancreatic abscess.

PMID: 7140484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1888. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1982 Nov;9(11):1961-8.

[Antitumor effect of intraperitoneal administration of a streptococcal
preparation, OK-432, in carcinomatous peritonitis. I. Experimental study in the
rat].

[Article in Japanese]

Saji S, Miya K, Oshita H, Nonomura O, Yokoyama Y, Yamamoto S, Takekoshi T, Sakata
K.

The effect of intraperitoneal (ip) OK-432 administration and its mechanism were
investigated with experimental tumor of rats.ANIMALS: 4 week-old female SD rats
(Slc/SD, closed colony). Tumor: An ascitic tumor, produced by intraperitoneal
inoculation of strain cells. These have been established from MRMT-1, which
originally was induced by 3-methyl cholanthrene administration. Experimental
study: On day 4 or 6 of ip inoculation of 1 x 10(6) tumor cells, 50 KE/kg of
OK-432 was administered intraperitoneally and cells were daily examined
microscopically. Morphological changes around tumor cells were investigated with 
Papanicolaou-stained preparations. Following results were obtained: A marked
increase in neutrophils was noted in ascitis at 24 hours after ip administration 
of OK-432; macrophages and lymphocytes appearing later than neutrophils. A
subsequent decrease in neutrophils was accompanied by gradual increase in tumor
cells. When OK-432 was administered intraperitoneally on day 4 of ip inoculation 
of tumor cells, aggregation of neutrophils around tumor cells was observed on day
6, and rosette formations around tumor cells with 76 to 10 neutrophils were noted
on days 7 and 8. Subsequently tumor cells forming centers of rosettes were found 
to be destroyed and disappeared. On days 10 to 12, regrowth of tumor cells within
incomplete rosette formation was found in ascites. The above reactions were not
remarkable, when OK-432 was administered intraperitoneally on day 6 of ip
inoculation of tumor cells, and were never observed in untreated cases. These
results indicated that cytotoxic effects of ip administration of OK-432 were
displayed mainly by rosette formation with neutrophilic cells.

PMID: 7184383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1889. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1982 Nov;56(11):1569-86.

[Experimental and clinical studies on the diagnostic value of CT-myelography
using a water-soluble contrast medium, metrizamide].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagase J.

A basic and clinical study on the diagnostic value of computed tomographic
myelography (CTM) with metrizamide was performed using the GE. CT/T. X-2. A basic
study: using the fourth lumbar spine taken from a fresh cadaver and the phantom
containing a test tube filled with metrizamide, the optimum window level (W. L.) 
and window width (W. W.) of the spinal CT and the optimum metrizamide
concentration for the CTM were investigated. A clinical study: the relation
between the concentration and volume of metrizamide and the timing for performing
the CTM after intrathecal injection of metrizamide were examined, then CTM was
performed in 82 cases with spinal and spinal cord disorders and 4 cases with
normal spinal cords.RESULTS: 1) Observing the spinal CT and CTM, the optimum W.
L. is 50-150 and W. W. is 1,000. 2) The optimum metrizamide concentration of the 
subarachnoid space for CTM is 6-12 mgI/ml and its CT number is 150-300. This
concentration is difficult to recognize in the conventional myelography. 3) It
was confirmed that there were two methods to obtain the optimum concentration.
One is the CTM after conventional myelography by lumbar puncture; at the cervical
or thoracic level CT is performed 1-2 hours after metrizamide myelography with
230-250 mgI/ml and 7-10 ml, and at the lumbar level CT is performed 3-6 hours
after myelography with 190-200 mgI/ml and 6-7 ml. The other is the CTM without
conventional myelography; at each level, metrizamide with 100 mgI/ml is injected 
by lumbar puncture and CT is performed 15-40 minutes after injection of 10-15 ml 
for the cervical or thoracic level, and 3-5 ml for the lumbar level. The CTM
obtained under these conditions provides the accurate information about
intraspinal canal lesions and, therefore, it is very useful not only for the
diagnosis of the lesion but also for the selection of the approach when a
surgical treatment is indicated.

PMID: 6761403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1890. Orthopedics. 1982 Nov 1;5(11):1482-6. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19821101-11.

Destructive arthropathy in chondrocalcinosis: a case report.

Richardson BC, Genant HK.

ABSTRAGT: A case of Chondrocalcinosis with unusually severe destruction of the
ankle joint, as well as erosions in the knees, hands and shoulders, is presented.
The role of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystals in destructive
arthropathy is discussed, with the recommendation that in cases of
chondrocalcinosis with destructive arthropathy, examination for conditions
leading to deposit of CPPD crystals should be considered.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24822798  [PubMed]


1891. Peptides. 1982 Nov-Dec;3(6):955-62.

Ceruletide increases threshold and tolerance to experimentally induced pain in
healthy man.

Stacher G, Steinringer H, Schmierer G, Winklehner S, Schneider C.

Previous studies suggested that ceruletide might be endowed with analgesic and
sedative properties. To investigate the effects of ceruletide on experimentally
induced pain and on central nervous functions, two studies, each involving 24
healthy subjects, were carried out in random double-blind fashion. Every subject 
participated in three experiments one week apart. In study 1, 120 and 60 ng/kg/hr
ceruletide IV increased threshold and tolerance to electrically and threshold to 
thermally induced cutaneous pain significantly more than saline (p less than
0.001), the higher dose being slightly more active. Only mild sedative effects
occurred. Study 2 compared the effects of 60 and 6 ng/kg/hr ceruletide IV to
those of 0.4 mg/kg/hr pentazocine IV and investigated whether these effects were 
naloxone reversible. Both ceruletide doses, 60 ng/kg/hr slightly more than 6
ng/kg/hr, elevated threshold and tolerance to electrically induced and threshold 
to thermally induced pain markedly, pentazocine acted stronger and longer than
ceruletide (p less than 0.001). Naloxone reversed the effects of pentazocine but 
not of ceruletide.CONCLUSION: ceruletide (1) exerts potent naloxone resistant
analgesic effects, which, however, are inferior to those of pentazocine, and (2) 
produces only mild sedation.

PMID: 7167401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1892. Z Kardiol. 1982 Nov;71(11):736-46.

[Mechanism and effects of the cardiotonic AR-L 115 BS in coronary heart disease: 
improved ventricular function and regional wall motility without angina
pectoris].

[Article in German]

Thormann J, Schlepper M, Kramer W, Gottwik M.

The use of new cardiotonic drugs, such as AR-L 115 BS (ARL), in patients with
coronary artery disease (CAD) might be limited by their aggravating myocardial
ischemia (MIS). Accordingly, we investigated ARL's (2 mg/kg BW i.v.)
hemodynamics, myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2) and regional wall motion (RWM)
in 30 patients with CAD presenting with pacing-induced MIS (angina, rise of
LVEDP, lactate production). ARL improved LV-pump function in 13 group-1 patients 
(average increases: cardiac index by +25%; LV-work by +17%; dp/dtmax by +30%;
coronary sinus flow by +39%), while there was a decrease in preload (LVEDP by
-44%) and afterload (AOMP by -9%) and cardiac efficiency by -25%. Such
ARL-effects required a rise of MVO2 by +41% but did not induce MIS. These
beneficial results were corroborated by significant hemodynamic improvements also
in 17 group-2 patients when comparing the non-medicated immediate post-pacing
period (PPP) with MIS versus the ARL-medicated PPP (= PPP + ARL) without MIS,
where RWM improved by an overall average of 26 +/- 11% in the phase PPP +
ARL.CONCLUSION: In CAD ARL improves hemodynamics and RWM. The mechanism is pre-
and afterload reduction, increase in contractility, MVO2 and CSF without MIS
being induced.

PMID: 7157928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1893. Ann Surg. 1982 Oct;196(4):379-88.

Role of platelets and fibrin in the healing sequence: an in vivo study of
angiogenesis and collagen synthesis.

Knighton DR, Hunt TK, Thakral KK, Goodson WH 3rd.

The signals that initiate repair are poorly characterized. These studies
investigate the capacity of platelets and fibrin to initiate angiogenesis,
fibroplasia, collagen synthesis and monocyte migration in the rabbit cornea
assay.METHODS: Autologous platelets and platelet-free fibrin were isolated from
rabbit blood. Released and control platelet preparations and autologous and
commercial fibrin were implanted in rabbit corneas.
RESULTS: Thrombin-released platelets produced angiogenesis and opacification.
Histology showed fibroplasia, corneal thickening, and neovascularization.
Collagen synthesis was elevated to twice control levels in thrombin-activated
platelet preparations. Various control platelet preparations produced no
angiogenesis, no opacification, and no histologic change. All fibrin injections
elicited a cellular exudate from the limbal vessels, followed by angiogenesis and
corneal opacification. Histology showed a mononuclear infiltrate with
neovascularization and fibroplasia. Control injections of rabbit skin collagen
and fibroblasts produced no response.

PMCID: PMC1352693
PMID: 6181748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1894. Gastroenterology. 1982 Oct;83(4):797-803.

Chronic giardiasis: studies on drug sensitivity, toxin production, and host
immune response.

Smith PD, Gillin FD, Spira WM, Nash TE.

We investigated a patient (W.B.) with chronic symptomatic Giardiasis despite
seven separate courses of either quinacrine or metronidazole who was cured by
combined quinacrine and metronidazole. After isolating Giardia lamblia from W.B.,
we cultured the trophozoites to make the following observations. In vitro drug
testing showed that (a) W.B.'s organisms were not more drug resistant than three 
other isolates and that (b) W.B.'s organisms were more sensitive to combined
quinacrine and metronidazole than to either drug alone. Isolates of Giardia
lamblia from W.B. and 3 other patients did not produce detectable enterotoxin in 
four different assays. W.B. had normal levels of circulating immunoglobulins,
detectable intestinal immunoglobulin A, circulating immunoglobulin G anti-Giardia
lamblia antibodies, and lymphocyte responsiveness to solubilized giardia lamblia.
However, monocytes-macrophages from W.B. exhibited reduced killing for Giardia
lamblia compared with normal subjects.CONCLUSIONS: (a) The chronicity of our
patient's infection was not due to the organism having unique properties of drug 
resistance. (b) Combined quinacrine and metronidazole, which cured our patient's 
chronic giardiasis, should be tried in patients in whom infection persists after 
single drug therapy. (c) The diarrhea in our patient was probably caused by a
mechanism other than Giardia lamblia-induced secretion by currently recognized
enterotoxins. (d) Reduced cellular cytotoxicity for Giardia lamblia may have
contributed to the persistence of our patient's infection and should be suspected
in other patients with chronic giardiasis.

PMID: 7106510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1895. Horm Metab Res. 1982 Oct;14(10):529-32.

Influences of gastro-intestinal polypeptides and glucose on glucagon secretion
induced by cholinergic stimulation.

Ahrén B, Lundquist I.

Glucagon secretion from the endocrine pancreas is known to be enhanced by
cholinergic stimulation. It has previously been described that vasoactive
intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is a potent potentiator of this cholinergically
induced glucagon secretion. In the present study, the effects of several
gastro-entero-pancreatic polypeptides and glucose on glucagon secretion induced
by the cholinergic agonist carbachol were investigated in vivo in the mouse.
Carbachol was injected i.v. and it stimulated glucagon secretion. The
polypeptides neurotensin and gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) were both found
to potentiate the carbachol-induced glucagon secretion, whereas substance P,
pancreatic polypeptide, and two different molecular variants of cholecystokinin, 
CCK-8 and CCK-39, were without effect on cholinergically induced glucagon
secretion. Neither of these polypeptides had any influence on basal glucagon
secretion when tested over a wide dose range. Somatostatin and glucose both
markedly inhibited carbachol-induced glucagon secretion.IN CONCLUSION: carbachol 
is a potent stimulator of glucagon secretion. This cholinergically induced
glucagon secretion can be modified by several gastro-entero-pancreatic hormones
influencing the release process both in potentiating and inhibiting direction.
The physiological relevance of these interactions remains to be further
investigated.

PMID: 6184299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1896. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Oct;64(8):1221-4.

Isolation of proliferating chondrocytes from bovine growth-plate cartilage by
rate-zonal centrifugation in a Ficoll density gradient.

Ray RL, Ehrlich MG, Mankin HJ.

A method has been developed for the isolation of growth-plate chondrocytes with
different biochemical properties by rate-zonal centrifugation in a Ficoll density
gradient. Bovine calf growth plates were first incubated in F-12 medium in the
presence of 3H-thymidine to label proliferating chondrocytes. The tissue was then
digested with collagenase and the isolated cells were fractionated in a Ficoll
density gradient. The chondrocytes, which sedimented into eleven fractions, were 
analyzed for 3H-thymidine and inorganic pyrophosphatase activity. Chondrocytes
that were maximally labeled with 3H-thymidine and contained maximum
pyrophosphatase contents were separated in the most dense, bottom fractions of
the gradient. These chondrocytes, which were apparently derived from the zone of 
proliferating chondrocytes, remained viable. This procedure should be applicable 
to the study of the biochemical properties of chondrocytes from the different
zones of normal and diseased growth plates.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A procedure has
been developed to separate proliferating chondrocytes from hypertrophic
chondrocytes and to isolate the proliferating chondrocytes in a viable state.
This procedure should make it possible to study in vitro some of te biochemical
processes that are involved in normal endochondral ossification, the regulation
of these processes, and the alterations that occur in these processes in the
presence of growth disorders and disturbances in endochondral ossification.

PMID: 7130233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1897. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Oct;64(8):1188-200.

Changes in the bone-cement interface after total hip replacement. An in vivo
animal study.

Radin EL, Rubin CT, Thrasher EL, Lanyon LE, Crugnola AM, Schiller AS, Paul IL,
Rose RM.

In order to study the temporal sequence of radiographic, histological,
mechanical, bacteriological, and chemical changes around the femoral component
following total hip replacement, a model was created by implanting
plastic-on-metal total hip replacements in sheep and walking the animals on a
concrete surface beginning six weeks postoperatively. This model demonstrated a
decreased torsional rigidity between the prosthesis and the femoral cortex in all
sheep. Failure of bonding occurred at the bone-cement interface and appears from 
our results to be most probably due to alterations in the functional stress of
the proximal end of the femur following insertion of the femoral component rather
than exothermic polymerization, toxicity of free monomer residue, or
infection.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: An understanding of the causes of loosening of
cemented metal femoral components in total hip replacement has been thwarted by a
lack of specimens at sequential times in the loosening process. Since a patient
is not operated on until the prosthetic components are completely loose, such
specimens are difficult to obtain clinically. For this reason a model for
examining the bone-cement interface, measured by decreased torsional rigidity of 
the prosthesis relative to the bone, was developed in sheep. Of all the
parameters studied, those inherent in the effects (mechanical or vascular, or
both) of insertion of the prosthesis itself appeared to be the most likely cause 
of the change in the mechanical properties of the interface. This suggests that
degenerative changes of the bone-cement interface may be inevitable.

PMID: 7130231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1898. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Oct;64(8):1148-52.

The relationship between tourniquet pressure and underlying soft-tissue pressure 
in the thigh.

Shaw JA, Murray DG.

Soft-tissue pressures in specimens of the lower extremities of cadavera, obtained
following hip disarticulation, were measured directly beneath a pneumatic thigh
tourniquet to establish the relationship between the tourniquet pressure and
underlying soft-tissue pressure. It was found that the tissue pressure was
consistently lower than the tourniquet pressure and that the percentage of
tourniquet pressure reflected in the underlying tissue varied inversely with the 
circumference of the thigh. It was also found that the pressure decreased with
increasing depth of the soft tissue.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: the use of a pneumatic
tourniquet is potentially associated with injury to underlying muscles, vessels, 
and nerves if excessive pressure occurs beneath the tourniquet. In order to
minimize the risk of soft-tissue injury, the lowest tourniquet pressure that
maintains a bloodless field should be used. A nomogram based on data generated in
this experiment is provided as a guide to determining appropriate tourniquet
pressures.

PMID: 7130227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1899. Leber Magen Darm. 1982 Oct;12(5):198-202.

[Shock liver].

[Article in German]

Lenz K, Kleinberger G, Druml W, Laggner A.

Hypoxic, central lobular necrosis of the liver has been observed in patients with
severe shock of different origin. In many cases diagnosis is not established,
since clinical symptoms are unrevealing, and since SGPT levels rise rather late
in the course of the disease. 3,788 patients have been treated in the intensive
care unit of the Department of Medicine of the Vienna Medical School, within 10
years; liver damage caused by shock has been found during this period only in 32 
cases. Diagnosis was established in 31 cases because of highly elevated SGPT
levels, and substantiated in 5 cases by liver biopsy; diagnosis was established
in one case by biopsy only. The median value of SGPT activity was 1,160 U/l and
of lactate concentration 7.5 mmol/l. In 18 patients shock was caused by acute
myocardial infarction, in 4 patients by pulmonary infarction and in 3 patients by
cardiac as well as pulmonary events. In 4 cases there were heart valve lesions,
one case had myocarditis, one case acute pancreatitis and one case hemorrhagic
shock. Lethality was 78.1%. There was no correlation between central venous
pressure and the maximal SGPT levels. There was however a correlation between
prothrombin time and creatinine clearance.IN CONCLUSION: In severe shock typical 
lesions of the liver may originate as a complication of shock, this complication 
being due to reduced blood flow leading to central lobulare necrosis of liver
cells.

PMID: 7182700  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1900. Z Kardiol. 1982 Oct;71(10):656-60.

[Changes of global and regional left-ventricular function by reperfusion in acute
myocardial infarction].

[Article in German]

Tebbe U, Sauer G, Kreuzer H, Neuhaus KL.

Biplane ventriculography was performed during the acute and chronic stage (3
weeks) of myocardial infarction in 54 patients. Early recanalisation was
attempted by intravenous streptokinase in 33, by intracoronary streptokinase in
15 and by catheter manipulation in 6 patients. In patients with successful
recanalisation (n = 37) biplane LV ejection fraction (EFbi) increased slightly
from 53 +/- 10 to 56 +/- 9% on the average, with late recanalisation or permanent
occlusion EFbi decreased significantly from 47 +/- 11 to 39 +/- 8% (p less than
0.001). Correspondingly the akinetic segment length (AKS) and the number of
akinetic radians (Sak) (semiautomated system) decreased with early recanalisation
and increased with permanent occlusion. Comparing global and regional LV
function, EF and Sak correlated closely (r = 0.81) while EF and AKS revealed only
a loose correlation (r = 0.59). Biplane and RAO single plane EF correlated with
an r-value of 0.88, Sy,x however was 9.9%. There was a considerable scatter in
the relation between the parameters of regional wall motion, AKS and Sak (r =
0.80; Sy,x = 10.6).CONCLUSIONS: On the average there is a slight improvement in
LV function after successful early reperfusion, which seems to be independent of 
the method of recanalisation. Changes of regional akinesis after reperfusion
cannot be assessed accurately by angiographic determination.

PMID: 7157919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1901. Z Kardiol. 1982 Oct;71(10):674-9.

[Influence of betablocking agents with and without intrinsic sympathicomimetic
activity (ISA) on local wall-motion disorders in patients with coronary heart
disease].

[Article in German]

Trieb G, Fassbender D, Schuster P, Gleichmann U.

A single blind randomized study on the effect of betablockers with (Pindolol = P,
0.4 mg i.v., n = 10) and without (Metoprolol = M, 5 mg i.v., n = 11) intrinsic
sympathicomimetic activity (ISA) on local wall-motion abnormalities was performed
in 21 patients with coronary heart disease in anterior wall hypokinesia. Before
and 10 minutes after intravenous application of P or M strokes, volume index,
cardiac index, heart rate, systolic and enddiastolic left-ventricular pressure
were measured. The left-ventricular volumes were calculated biplane with the
area-length method of Dodge and Sandler. Analysis of wall-motion disorders were
performed by hemichord method measuring 7 hemiaxis and 1 long axis.RESULTS:
Similar hemodynamic effects of both beta-blockers were found on LVEDP und
LV-EDVI. Different effects were observed on heart rate and ejection fraction.
With M heart rate and ejection fraction decreased, with P heart rate and ejection
fraction increased significantly due to the intrinsic sympathicomimetic activity 
(ISA). Shortening of hypokinetic wall segments was improved by both P and M,
shortening of non-hypokinetic contralateral segments, however, remained unchanged
with P and decreased with M. With P shortening of chords was improved, whereas
with M shortening of chords decreased. Our findings suggest that in therapy of
patients with coronary heart disease differential use of beta-blocking agents
with or without ISA has to be discussed.

PMID: 6130658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1902. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Sep;64(7):1026-33.

Performance of the tibial component in total knee replacement.

Bartel DL, Burstein AH, Santavicca EA, Insall JN.

In patients with deficient bone in the proximal end of the tibia, the mechanical 
support of a conventional total knee replacement may be inadequate. We have
developed a custom design for use in situations in which there is extensive
deficiency of tibial cancellous bone. To do this, we examined conventional and
custom prosthetic tibial components using finite-element analysis. Several
loading configurations were tested, and the worst loading conditions were found
to be those in which eccentric loads were placed on the margin of the tibial
component. The results showed that the stresses on the cancellous bone beneath a 
conventional-design prosthesis may be lowered if a metal tray and metal peg are
employed. A salvage-design concept for revision in the presence of deficient
cancellous bone was tested analytically and used successfully. This concept
requires that some portion of the applied load be transferred directly to the
tibial cortical shell. Stresses in the remaining cancellous bone were lowered by 
the combination of a thickened metal tray and a metal support buttress.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: This study demonstrates the advantage of metal trays for the tibial
plateau and suggests that they should be used whenever the supporting tibial bone
is insufficient. In knees in which there are large defects in the bone, direct
transfer of the load to the cortical shell through the prosthesis, made possible 
by a custom design, appears to be necessary.

PMID: 7118966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1903. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1982 Sep;34(9):1519-27.

[Effect of combined use of dextran sulfate and urokinase in cases of
preeclampsia-behavior of blood coagulation-fibrinolysis and inhibitor systems].

[Article in Japanese]

Mutoh S, Maki M, Takahashi S, Abe T.

In the severe cases of toxemia of pregnancy, the coagulation-fibrinolysis pattern
and the morphological findings of the kidney suggest participation of chronic
DIC. Accordingly, it is considered that management of mother and fetus by
administration of drugs with anticoagulant and fibrinolytic activities may be
useful.METHOD: For 17 cases of preeclampsia (gestosis index, 9.1 +/- 1.5) daily
dose of 3,000-1,500mg DS and 48,000 IU of UK were administered intravenously by
one shot or drip (10-30 minutes) twice daily. The following clinical and
laboratory examinations were done: Gestosis index (GI), blood pressure (BP),
edema, urine volume, urine protein, Ccr (ml/min), platelet counts, PT, PTT, PRT, 
TT, factors XII, IX, VIII, X, VII, V, II and XIII, Fbg, ELT, eug + SKLA(Std),
Plg, SFMC, serum and urine FDP, AT-III, C1-INA, alpha 2-PI, alpha 2-M and alpha
1-AT.
RESULT: In the preeclamptic women, increases in intrinsic coagulating factors,
marked decreases in the extrinsic coagulating factors, depletion of ELT, rise in 
SFMC, marked increases in blood and urine FDP, and decreases in AT-III and alpha 
2-PI were observed, suggesting the presence of chronic DIC. After administration 
of DS and UK, improvement of clinical findings such as a fall of BP,
disappearance of edema, reduction in urine protein, and increase in Ccr were
observed. In addition, normalization of the intrinsic system, recovery of the
extrinsic system, ELT and serum FDP to normal levels, increasing tendency of Plg,
AT-III, alpha 2-PI, alpha 2-M, alpha 1-AT, and disappearance of urine FDP were
demonstrated at the same time. It is therefore concluded that this treatment for 
severe preeclampsia seems to be effective.

PMID: 6182257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1904. Orthopedics. 1982 Sep;5(9):1183-5. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19820901-08.

Brachial plexus injury following risser hyperextension casting for scheuermann's 
disease.

Jacobsen ST, Crawford AH.

SUMMARY: The occurrence of two cases of brachial plexus as a complication of
Risser hyperextension cast is reported. The symptoms started just after
application of the cast, and both cases had complete resolution of the problem a 
few months after thecast was removed. The paper should bring attention to the
lesion and should emphasize the necessity of removing the cast when the diagnosis
is made, regardless of whether or not there is local pressure.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24831602  [PubMed]


1905. J Lab Clin Med. 1982 Aug;100(2):230-9.

Hyperphosphatemia: a factor that provokes severe experimental acute renal
failure.

Zager RA.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether pre-existent hyperphosphatemia
potentiates the severity of evolving ARF. Normal rats were subjected to graded
phosphate infusions (0 to 0.07 mmol/kg/hr) in order to induce differing degrees
of hyperphosphatemia (6.8 to 10.3 mg/dl). After a 40 min control period, ARF was 
induced either by HgCl2 administration (12 mg/kg) or by bilateral renal pedicle
cross-clamping (25 min). GFRs before and after renal injury were determined by
measuring the Cioth. The percent decrease of GFR after renal injury strongly
correlated with the degree of phosphate loading (r = 0.71, HgCl2; r = 0.82,
ischemia) (p less than 0.001). In addition, phosphate-treated ARF rats showed
striking histologic changes not seen in their non-phosphate-treated counterparts,
i.e., marked vacuolization of the proximal tubules and variable degrees of
glomerular capillary collapse. Renal calcium/phosphate deposition could not be
demonstrated in any kidney by the Von Kossa or the alizarin red histochemical
techniques. Terminal serum phosphate concentrations ranged from 7.5 to 19.1
mg/dl. Phosphate-infused control rats had stable GFRs and normal renal
histology.CONCLUSION: Hyperphosphatemia may significantly exacerbate the
functional and histologic correlates of acute renal failure. The pathogenesis of 
this response remains unknown.

PMID: 6212619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1906. Jpn J Antibiot. 1982 Aug;35(8):1987-92.

[Treatment and prevention of infections with cefoxitin sodium in patients with
biliary tract infections and obstructive jaundice].

[Article in Japanese]

Fuji T, Harima K, Ariyama S, Maetani N, Nagatomi Y, Kawashima M, Aibe T, Amano H,
Asagami F, Goto T, Kawamura S, Takemoto T.

A total of 24 patients who was hospitalized in the Internal Medicine Wards of
Yamaguchi University attached Hospital and the university's 3 related hospitals
were administered with cefoxitin. The breakdown of the patients treated with
cefoxitin was 7 with cholecystitis, 7 with choledochitis and the remaining 10 for
the prevention of infections with obstructive jaundice. Daily doses of 2-6 g of
cefoxitin were administered for 6-40 days by intermittent intravenous drip
infusion in divided doses.RESULTS: 1. Of 14 patients with biliary tract
infections, 10 (71.4%) responded favorably with cefoxitin. 2. Of 10 patients with
obstructive jaundice used for the prevention of infections, 8 (80%) responded
favorably with cefoxitin. 3. No untoward side effects were observed. 4. Cefoxitin
proved to be a safe and effective antibiotic in the treatment of biliary tract
infections and for the prevention of infections in patients with obstructive
jaundice.

PMID: 7154246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1907. Onkologie. 1982 Aug;5(4):168-73.

[Monitoring of Myocardial function during therapy with cardiotoxic cytostatics.
Studies with the example of anthracycline-containing chemotherapy].

[Article in German]

Richter-v Arnauld HP, Kleeberg UR, Hassel C, Spehn J, Erdmann H.

It is the purpose of this paper to show a concept of non-invasive assessment of
cardiomyopathy (CM) in cytostatic treatment, especially with Docorubicin (A). In 
a follow-up study during therapy with A 150 patients were examined by ECG
(QRS-amplitude), by systolic time intervals (STI), preejection period versus left
ventricular ejection time (PEP/LVET), normal value greater than or equal to 0.45,
and PEP corrected to 0-frequency (PEPc), normal value greater than or equal to
147 ms, by echocardiography (UCG), shortening fractions (SF), normal value
greater than 30%, and in 6 cases by micro-catheter with exercise test.RESULTS:
(1) ECG does not predict CM (2) 11 patients (7%) had abnormal SF in UCG, 5 having
symptoms of CM. 6 patients without clinical signs of CM were examined by
microcatheter, 5 having abnormal pressure or HbO2 in the pulmonary artery at
exercise. So nearly all patients with abnormal SF had objective signs of latent
or overt CM (3) PEP/LVET was abnormal in all patients with CM but false positive 
in 44% of all investigations, mostly by shortening of LVET. PEPc, also abnormal
in all patients with CM, was false positive only in 12%.
CONCLUSION: UCG is the most specific non-invasive method for assessment of CM in 
cytostatic treatment. STI are less specific but highly sensitive to CM and
therefore a useful screening method. PEPc allows better selection than PEP/LVET
because of its higher specificity. STI- contrary to UCG- can easily be obtained
outside cardiologic centers, i.e. in the oncologic department itself, so that UCG
is needed only in about 15-20% in treatment of patients. Cardiotoxic treatment
should be stopped, when all values are abnormal, even when patients are
asymptomatic. Since we adopted this policy we did not loose any of our last 100
patients from CM.

PMID: 6755329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1908. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 1982 Aug;53(3):129-35.

[Factor analytical approach to the functional structure of the properties common 
to crossmodal senses].

[Article in Japanese]

Satow A.

In place of actual psychophysical measurements, a checklist with 58 items was
compiled, in order to ask the subject's preferences among environmental stimuli
in vision, audition, tactile sense and olfaction, and to estimate the extent of
their subjective sensitiveness to intense or weak sensory stimuli. The 229 male
undergraduate students subjects participated in this research.RESULTS: By VARIMAX
rotation, the following six factors were obtained, 1st General sensitivity, 2nd
Orientation to the weak stimuli, 3rd Orientation to the intense and prolonged
stimuli, 4th Sensory-motor reactivity to the intermittent or rhythmical stimuli, 
5th Activation level, and 6th Temporal sensitivity. The 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 6th
factors agreed well with the theoretically predicted properties, while the 5th
was not necessarily similar to the properties on the hypothesis. The 2nd, and 3rd
factors were the factors related to "the culture bounded behavior", on the other 
hand, the 1st and 6th ones related to "the culture-free behavior." The 5th,
Activation level, stand in need of further research.

PMID: 7176231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1909. Z Kardiol. 1982 Aug;71(8):497-508.

[The etiology, course and prognosis of dilated cardiomyopathy].

[Article in German]

Kuhn H, Becker R, Fischer J, Curtius JM, Lösse B, Hort W, Loogen F.

In order to study the etiology, the clinical course and the prognosis of patients
with DCM, clinical, morphological (endomyocardial catheter biopsy), angiographic 
and hemodynamic data of patients with DCM were studied. The total number of
patients was 396. In 258 patients definite DCM was diagnosed, in 138 patients DCM
was suspected, e.g., because of an additional history of alcoholism.ETIOLOGY: In 
no case acute subacute or chronic myocarditis was found in myocardial biopsies (n
= 114) and at autopsy (n = 18). However, from the history strong evidence was
obtained for DCM being the late stage of diphtheric heart disease predominantly
among patients with complete left bundle branch block. As far as the alcoholic
etiology is concerned, the only significant difference between DCM and alcoholic 
heart disease was a higher proportion of women among patients with DCM (28% and
5%, resp.). Clinical course and prognosis: 221 patients were studied
prospectively (mean follow-up time 3.1 +/- 2.3 years), 44% of patients died or
deteriorated. However, in patients with normal cardiothoracic ratio this rate
amounted only to 12%. The mean annual mortality rate was 9.8% and varied
significantly in relation to different subsets of patients from 0% to 17%. A bad 
prognosis was significantly indicated by young age, high cardiothoracic ratio,
pronounced elevation of enddiastolic volume index and of left ventricular
enddiastolic pressure at rest and of mean pulmonary artery pressure at exercise, 
by severe morphologic changes of myocardial biopsies, severe ventricular
arrhythmias, the absence of transient abnormal elevation of arterial blood
pressure during follow up, of complete left bundle branch block and of a positive
history of diphtheria. However, the wide scatter of data diminished the
significance of them for the definite prognostic evaluation of individual case.
The cumulative survival curves of patients with a history of alcohol abuse did
not differ from that of patients with DCM. The data demonstrate that DCM in
patients with the history of diphtheria together with left bundle branch block is
possible caused by an inflammatory process. According to the analysis of the
clinical course and the prognosis, DCM is one of the most severe heart disease.
However, in different subsets of patients, the clinical course may be stable for 
long time and even normal longevity cannot be excluded.

PMID: 6215777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1910. Fortschr Med. 1982 Jul 8;100(26):1227-9.

[Proliferating retinopathy in diabetes mellitus. Clinical and autopsy results].

[Article in German]

Fischer F.

Clinical and autoptic investigations of thirty patients suffering from diabetes
mellitus and retinopathia proliferans result in these findings: Of the various
manifestations of angiopathy only retinopathy (leading symptom), nephropathy, and
arterial hypertension are present in all cases, all other forms receeding into
the background numerically, though not in potency. 20 cases of nephropathy ended 
in uremia (cause of death), 10 cases in azotemia. In 14 out of 20 cases of uremia
specific glomerulosclerosis (M. Kimmelstiel-Wilson) was stated autoptically, in
the remaining 6 cases a different form of nephropathy was found (pyelonephritis, 
arteriosclerosis renum, chronic glomerulonephritis). In the 10 patients suffering
from azotemia, direct causes of death were various general diseases, such as
coronary sclerosis, encephalomalacia, pyogenic infections, and acute
tuberculosis.CONCLUSION: Diabetes mellitus in connection with retinopathia
proliferans turns out to be the most serious form of the general diabetic
disease.

PMID: 6180964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1911. Am J Med Sci. 1982 Jul-Aug;284(1):18-23.

Dissolution of cholesterol gallstones by bile acids in hamsters.

Sue SO, Bonorris GG, Marks JW, Vimadalal S, Schoenfield LJ.

We previously reported a hamster model for cholesterol gallstone formation and
prophylaxis. The aim of this study was to validate a model for dissolution of
cholesterol gallstones by testing bile acids used in patients. Sixty hamsters
were allocated to six groups of ten; Group I received the standard diet (.8mg
cholesterol/gram food) and Groups II-VI received the lithogenic regime (2.4 mg
cholesterol/gram food and 15 micrograms ethinyl estradiol) for twelve weeks.
During the next eight weeks, Group I remained on the standard diet, Group II on
the lithogenic regime, while Group III switched to the standard diet. Groups
IV-VI remained on the lithogenic regime, and received 20 mg/kg/d of CDC (Group
IV), UDC (Group V) or cholic acid (Group VI). Cholesterol gallstones were found
in 90% of hamsters on the lithogenic regime, even after return to the standard
diet, in 80% of those receiving cholic acid, and in none receiving the standard
diet, CDC or UDC. CDC and UDC but not cholic acid inhibited hepatic HMG-CoA
reductase activity (p less than 0.01) and desaturated bile (p less than 0.01).
The highest HMG-CoA reductase (p less than 0.02) occurred after return from the
lithogenic regime to the standard diet.CONCLUSIONS: 1) A new model for
cholesterol gallstone dissolution has been validated; 2) CDC and UDC, in contrast
to cholic acid, decreased HMG-CoA reductase, desaturated bile and dissolved
gallstones as in patients; and 3) Return from the lithogenic regime to the
standard diet did not desaturate bile or dissolve gallstones, but did increase
HMG-CoA reductase as found in gallstone patients.

PMID: 7091181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1912. Am J Physiol. 1982 Jul;243(1):F12-8.

Proximal cell K+ activity: technical problems and dependence on plasma K+
concentration.

Teulon J, Anagnostopoulos T.

K+-selective liquid ion-exchanger double-barreled microelectrodes were used to
measure intracellular K+ activity (alpha Ki) of proximal tubular cells in
Necturus kidney. SEveral methodological problems inherent in the construction and
in vivo application of such microelectrodes were considered, in particular the
identification of leaky impalements and the correct assessment of alpha Ki during
reversible perfusion of peritubular capillaries from control to a test solution. 
Peritubular potassium concentration (CpK) could be altered by means of
double-barreled micropipettes containing a physiologic and a high or low K
solution. The control alpha Ki value averaged 57.9 +/- 8.5 mM (mean +/- SD, n =
38) and the basolateral membrane potential was -70.4 +/- 5.8 mV. Thus, the K+
equilibrium potential across the basolateral membrane (EK) was -81.1 +/- 3.4 mV. 
Increasing CpK from 3.0 to 30.0 mM raised alpha Ki by 7.0 +/- 1.5 mM, and
lowering CpK to 0.3 mM decreased alpha Ki by 9.2 +/- 2.9 mM.CONCLUSIONS: 1) the
steady-state K+ distribution across the basolateral membrane indicates that
potassium is actively pumped into the cell. 2) The relative stability of alpha Ki
in the face of large CpK variations underscores the effectiveness of cell
homeostasis; passive mechanisms appear to contribute to this end.

PMID: 6283914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1913. Diabetes. 1982 Jul;31(7):634-40.

[125I]diiodoinsulins. Binding affinities, biologic potencies, and properties of
their decay products.

Pérez Maceda B, Linde S, Sonne O, Gliemann J.

Insulin was iodinated with 0.3-0.4 mol 125I/mol insulin using the lactoperoxidase
method. About one-third of the radioactivity incorporated into insulin was in
diiodoinsulins and about 40% of these molecules contained diiodotyrosine in
residue 14 of the A chain. Most of the remaining molecules contained one
A14-monoiodotyrosine and one monoiodotyrosine in either position A19, B16, or
B26. The binding affinity and biologic potency of this heterogeneous
diiodoinsulin preparation was not significantly different from that of
A14-[125I]monoiodoinsulin in rat adipocytes, whereas it was slightly reduced in
hepatocytes and IM-9 lymphocytes. From the iodine distribution and previous data 
on the binding affinity of each of the four monoiodoinsulin isomers it was
calculated that A14-diiodotyrosine-insulin possesses full binding affinity and
biologic potency in adipocytes. Diiodoinsulins isolated from another iodoinsulin 
preparation (iodate method) contained 58% A19-diiodotyrosine-insulin, and most
remaining molecules contained one A19-monoiodotyrosine. The binding affinity of
this mixed diiodoinsulin preparation was approximately one-fourth of that of
A14-monoiodoinsulin in adipocytes, IM-9 lymphocytes, and hepatocytes. It was
calculated that A19-diiodotyrosine-insulin is nearly devoid of binding affinity. 
The diiodoinsulins (lactoperoxidase method) decayed to iodide (probably from
diiodotyrosine-insulin) or to polymers with little specific but a markedly
increased nonspecific binding. In addition, the polymers had a marked tendency to
adsorb to cellulose acetate filters.CONCLUSIONS: 1. The binding affinities of
diiodoinsulins range from very low values to values at least as high as that of
insulin depending on the positions of the iodine moieties. 2. The relative
binding affinities vary among tissues. 3. Polymeric decay products give high
nonspecific binding.

PMID: 7160541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1914. Diabetes. 1982 Jul;31(7):641-7.

Important role of adrenergic mechanisms in acute glucose counterregulation
following insulin-induced hypoglycemia in type I diabetes. Evidence for an effect
mediated by beta-adrenoreceptors.

Bolli G, de Feo P, Compagnucci P, Cartechini MG, Angeletti G, Santeusanio F,
Brunetti P.

During hypoglycemia induced by an i.v. insulin infusion for 60 min, rates of
plasma glucose (PG) decrease and recovery, PG nadir, and plasma
counter-regulatory hormone and free fatty acid responses were studied in eight
type I uncomplicated diabetic subjects and eight nondiabetic subjects. Each
subject was tested three times at two different rates of insulin infusion (25 and
32 mU/m2/min): (1) during infusion of saline, (2) during infusion of phentolamine
+ propranolol (combined alpha, beta-blockade), and (3) during infusion of
propranolol alone (isolated beta-blockade) for 150 min. At the time of the
studies, the diabetic subjects had been made euglycemic by an overnight i.v.
insulin infusion. During infusion of insulin (25 mU/m2/min) and saline, the rates
of PG decrease and recovery were slower (P less than 0.01) and PG nadir was
delayed in the diabetic subjects. Moreover, their plasma glucagon response was
blunted while plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, growth hormone, and cortisol
responses were similar in both groups. Infusion of insulin at 32 mU/m2/min caused
larger decreases in PG than had been observed when insulin was infused at 25
mU/m2/min. Plasma glucagon responses increased in the nondiabetic subjects (P
less than 0.05) but not in the diabetic subjects. However, in the diabetic
subjects, plasma epinephrine increased more than in the nondiabetic subjects (P
less than 0.05). There was an inverse correlation between the individual plasma
epinephrine responses and the plasma glucagon responses in the diabetic subjects 
(r = -0.72) but not in the nondiabetic subjects. Alpha, beta-adrenergic blockade 
decreased the plasma glucose nadir and impaired the rate at which normoglycemia
was restored in the diabetic subjects (P less than 0.005 vs. saline) but not in
the nondiabetic subjects. Plasma catecholamine and growth hormone responses were 
increased and plasma FFA recovery was suppressed in both groups (P less than 0.05
vs. saline), while the cortisol responses were unaltered. During isolated
beta-adrenergic blockade, changes in plasma glucose, counterregulatory hormones
and FFA were essentially identical to those observed during combined alpha,
beta-adrenergic blockade in both groups except that the augmented plasma
norepinephrine responses were no longer apparent.CONCLUSIONS: although
epinephrine is not essential for prompt restoration of normoglycemia in normal
man following insulin-induced hypoglycemia, it plays a major role in glucose
counterregulation in diabetics who have an impaired glucagon secretion in
response to hypoglycemia. These counterregulatory effects of epinephrine are
mediated by beta-adrenoreceptors.

PMID: 6298039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1915. Phlebologie. 1982 Jul-Sep;35(3):695-702.

[The soleus syndrome. Apropos of 3 cases of intermittent claudication of venous
origin].

[Article in French]

Franco A, Lachenal G, Morzol B, Carpentier P, Magne P, Quesada C, Guidicelli H.

The typical case present with a unilateral, atypical claudication with discrete
oedema, occurring after repeated exercise. These paradoxical features of venous
pain, aggravation with attacks, resolution after prolonged rest and the absence
of arterial signs are suggestive of the disease. The syndrome may present as
repeated calf thromboses or recurrent varicose veins suggesting some deep
obstruction. An inflammatory and oedematous process linked to exercise is
associated with a congenital predisposition: a constriction of the venous arcade 
at the insertion of the soleus. Phlebography confirms the absence of
thrombophlebitis and shows underlying stasis and poor opacification of the deep
popliteal and, most importantly, anterior hooking and actual kinking of the vein 
on the lateral film which persists on mild flexion. A simple surgical procedure
to free the vein turns this incapacitating and potentially thrombogenic pathology
into a benign condition.TITLE: Therapeutic modalities for ischaemic atrophy in
its acutely painful phase or the exceptional use of corticotherapy in phlebology.

PMID: 7134273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1916. Steroids. 1982 Jul;40(1):53-63.

Estradiol receptors of two distinct populations of Leydig cells.

Lin T, Chen GC, Murono EP, Osterman J, Nankin HR.

The optimal concentrations of molybdate (Mo) to prevent thermal inactivation of
estrogen receptor (ER) were found to be 5-20 mM. Using metrizamide density
centrifugation, interstitial cells of adult Sprague-Dawley rat testes (2-3 months
of age) can be separated into 5 distinct bands. Band 2 (B2) and 3 (B3) cells
represented functionally different Leydig cells. For measurement of cytosolic ER,
purified Leydig cells (B2 and B3 cells) were homogenized in 10 mM Tris-EDTA
buffer with 5 mM of Mo (pH 7.4) and centrifuged at 105,000xg for 60 min. Cytosols
were used immediately for ER determination. ER of B2 cells was 24.0 +/- 3.1
fmol/mg protein (mean +/- SE, n = 7), which was significantly higher than that of
B3 cells, 18.6 +/- 3.2 fmol/mg protein (n = 7), p less than 0.005. The
association constants of these two populations of Leydig cells for E2 receptor
were comparable, 5.1 X 10(10)M-1 for B2 cells and 4.2 x 10(10)M-1 for B3 cells.
In response to hCG 100 IU s.c., ER of B2 cells was reduced to 2.0 +/- 0.38
fmol/mg protein (n = 5), which was 8.4% of the control B2 cells. ER of B3 cells
was almost completely depleted by the same dose of hCG, to 0.70 +/- 0.38 fmol/mg 
protein, 3.7% of the control B3 cells.IN CONCLUSION: B2 cells contained higher
amounts of ER under basal conditions than B3 cells, and hCG-induced
desensitization caused depletion of ER of both B2 and B3 cells.

PMID: 7157446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1917. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1982 Jun;75 Spec No:109-13.

[Urinary thromboxane B2 in hypertensive patients].

[Article in French]

Hornych A, Safar M, Bariéty J, Simon A, Krief C, Milliez P.

Thromboxane A2 (TxA2) is a vasoconstrictor synthetized by the kidney. Its role in
hypertension is unknown. We measured urinary TxB2 (the metabolite of renal TxA2) 
by radioimmunoassay and studied renal functions in 15 borderline, 15 sustained
essential hypertensive patients and 12 age-matched normotensive subjects (6 young
and 6 older adults). Results were as follows: Normotensive subjects: Mean
arterial blood pressure (MBP) 97 +/- 2 mmHg, urinary TxB2 (UTxB2V) 159 +/- 12
pg/min, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 120 +/- 8 ml/min, sodium excretion
(UNaV) 73 +/- 9 mueq/min. Hypertensive patients: MBP 115 +/- 2 mmHg (p less than 
0,001 vs controls), UTxB2V 298 +/- 24 pg/min (p less than 0,005), GFR 128 +/- 6
ml/min, UNaV 51 +/- 4 mueq/min (p less than 0.02). There was a positive
significant correlation between UTxB2V and GFR (p less than 0,005) and between
UTxB2V and UNaV (p less than 0,005) in hypertensive but not in normotensive
subjects. There was no correlation between GFR and UNaV in either
group.CONCLUSION: 1. Urinary (i.e. renal) TxB2 is significantly elevated in
hypertensive patients; 2. TxA2 may be a mediator of pressure natriuresis.

PMID: 6810812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1918. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1982 Jun;42(6):436-9.

[The problem of domiciliary obstetric practice (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Roemer VM, Haug J.

From a group of 8,020 well-documented and electronically recorded deliveries at
the Tübingen University Gynaecological Clinic during 1976-1979 we selected 1147
(14.3%) according to strict criteria and subjected them to further analysis.
These 1147 pregnant women had one feature in common, namely, that there were
absolutely no signs of any risk factor prior to delivery (Table 1).RESULT: 83%
only of these children were delivered spontaneously; in 0.8% of the cases it was 
necessary to effect Caesarean section, and in another 15% vaginal-surgical
delivery proved necessary. In 10% threatening and in 0.9% acute foetal asphyxia
was the guiding sign for appropriate obstetric measures. In 31.4% of the cases we
found a twisted cord, whereas the frequency rate of acidosis (pHNA less than
7100) was 7%. Apgar counts below 7 were seen in 2.3% and indices below 3 in 0.1% 
of the cases. Perinatal mortality was approximately 1:1000. Complications
requiring follow-ups were seen in the first week post partum in every 20th child.
It is concluded that domiciliary obstetric practice cannot be medically
recommended since it involves a risk rate for both mother and child which is
considered too high.

PMID: 6921123  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1919. Int J Epidemiol. 1982 Jun;11(2):112-9.

A case-control dietary study of primary liver cancer risk from aflatoxin
exposure.

Bulatao-Jayme J, Almero EM, Castro MC, Jardeleza MT, Salamat LA.

The dietary intakes of 90 confirmed primary liver cancer cases were compared
against 90 age-sex matched controls. Dietary recall, obtained by the same
nutritionist, was taken for each change of residence lasting one year or more.
The frequency and amounts of food items consumed were calculated into units of
aflatoxin load per day using a Philippine table of aflatoxin values of these
items. Of the total subjects' aflatoxin load, 51.2% came from cassava, 20.3% from
corn, 6.8% from peanuts and 5.8% from sweet potato. The mean aflatoxin load per
day of the cases as found to be 440% that of the controls. Upon grouping dietary 
aflatoxin loads (and alcohol intakes) into Heavy and Light, and upon comparing
cases versus controls, the relative risk (RR) of developing primary liver cancer 
was found to be statistically significant in the following order of rank:
cassava, peanuts, sweet potato, corn and alcohol. Boiled rice which had
negligible aflatoxin content gave no difference in risk. Combining aflatoxin load
and alcohol intake gave a synergistic and a statistically significant effect on
RR with Light Aflatoxin, Light Alcohol as RR = 1.RESULTS: Light Aflatoxin, Heavy 
Alcohol RR = 3.9; Heavy Aflatoxin, Light Alcohol RR = 17.5; Heavy Aflatoxin,
Heavy Alcohol RR = 35.0.

PMID: 7095960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1920. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jun;64(5):734-9.

The effect of knee-prosthesis geometry on cruciate ligament mechanics during
flexion.

Lew WD, Lewis JL.

We used buckle transducers in conjunction with a mathematical model to
investigate the mechanics of the cruciate ligaments during flexion of knees
containing prostheses with differing component geometries. With normal component 
placement and both cruciate ligaments intact, the full range of flexion is
restricted in a knee with the conforming, single radius-of-curvature geometric
prosthesis because of large constraint forces in the posterior cruciate ligament.
Ligament incompatibility is avoided with multicurvature designs, as represented
by the kinematic prosthesis. Low conformity of components allows
anterior-posterior displacements to accompany flexion, which provides for a full 
range of flexion and allows cruciate ligament forces to approach those of a
normal knee.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This analysis points out that special precautions
must be taken to avoid ligament constraint forces (and potential loosening) if an
implant with highly conforming components is used when both cruciate ligaments
are intact. The information presented here, relating implant geometry to cruciate
ligament mechanics, must be considered when choosing an appropriate prosthetic
design to ensure ligament compatibility in the presence of one, both, or no
cruciate ligaments.

PMID: 7085699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1921. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jun;64(5):713-20.

Loads on the lumbar spine. Validation of a biomechanical analysis by measurements
of intradiscal pressures and myoelectric signals.

Schultz A, Andersson G, Ortengren R, Haderspeck K, Nachemson A.

We studied the validity of predictions of compressive loads on the lumbar spine
and contraction forces in lumbar trunk muscles based on a biomechanical model.
The predictions were validated by quantitative measurements of myoelectric
activities at twelve locations on the trunk and of the pressure in the third
lumbar disc. Twenty-five tasks were performed isometrically by four healthy
volunteers. The model predicted that the tasks imposed mean compressive loads on 
the spine of as much as 2400 newtons and required contraction forces of the
posterior muscles of the back of as much as 1800 newtons. Intradiscal pressures
of as much as 1600 kilopascals were measured. The predicted and measured
quantities were well correlated. It appears that the model adequately predicted
the compressive loads on the lumbar spine and the tensions in the back
muscles.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Patients with low-back disorders limit their physical
activities, which indicates that loading on the spine must be a factor in those
disorders. This study shows that the loads imposed on the spine by physical
activities need not be measured. They can easily be calculated. This will
significantly accelerate biomechanics research on low-back disorders. The
calculation techniques that we validated for predicting loads on the spine can be
used to calculate the loads on any skeletal structure. Those loads are largely
determined not by the externally applied loads, but by the moments of those
applied loads and by the moments of the weights of the body segments that the
structure must support.

PMID: 7085696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1922. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jun;64(5):666-71.

Intra-osseous venous pressure in Legg-Perthes disease.

Green NE, Griffin PP.

Twenty-three hips in patients with Legg-Perthes disease and twenty-three normal
hips were studied. The intra-osseous pressure was measured in the femoral neck in
all forty-six hips and was found to be only slightly higher in the hips with
Legg-Perthes disease. However, after five milliliters of saline solution was
injected intra-osseously, the pressure was significantly higher in the diseased
hips than in the controls, and after the pressure had stabilized at five minutes 
after injection the pressure was even higher in the hips with Legg-Perthes
disease. Intra-osseous venography was also performed for all of the hips. All of 
the control hips had a normal venogram, whereas the venograms in the hips with
Legg-Perthes disease were all either mildly or severely abnormal. The rise in the
intra-osseous pressure after saline stress in the hips with severe changes on
venography was significantly higher than the rise in the hips with mild
changes.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Intra-osseous venography and measurement of changes
in intra-osseous pressure might aid in the earlier diagnosis of Legg-Perthes
disease and prove to be useful monitors of the results of treatment.

PMID: 7085692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1923. J Cardiogr. 1982 Jun;12(2):489-502.

[Contrast echocardiographic evaluation of right ventricular filling profiles in
patients with right ventricular volume or pressure overload].

[Article in Japanese]

Takamoto T, Nitta M, Miyahara Y, Niwa A, Taniguchi K, Takeuchi J.

Contrast echocardiographic examinations were performed to evaluate hemodynamic
filling profiles in patients with right ventricular overload as well as in normal
adults. The subjects were 15 cases of atrial septal defect (ASD) as a
representative of right ventricular volume overload, 13 cases of mitral stenosis 
(MS) as a condition with right ventricular pressure overload and 15 cases of
normal adults. M-mode contrast echocardiograms were recorded through the
ultrasonic beam direction determined by two-dimensional echocardiograms as shown 
in Fig. 1.RESULTS: 1) In diastole, continuous rapid linear flow through the
tricuspid valve orifice was observed in 11 patients with ASD, while biphasic
rapid linear flow was noted in normal adults (control) and in patient with MS. 2)
Maximum flow velocity (MFV) in early diastole and flow velocity in atrial
contraction phase (AFV) were larger in cases with ASD than that of the control
subjects. However, there was no difference in rapid filling time (RFT) between
patients with ASD and MS. 3) The characteristic findings of tricuspid valve
echoes in cases of ASD included increased valve opening velocity (TOV), decreased
diastolic descent rate (TDDR), and high F point. These findings were correlated
well with increased MFV and prolonged RFT. 4) MFV was decreased secondarily to
the increment of pulmonary artery pressure. 5) Turbulent flow in the right-sided 
chamber was observed in patients with pulmonary hypertension. These results
suggest that linear contrast echoes in the M-mode echocardiograms may be useful
for the evaluation of flow velocity and flow profiles across the tricuspid valve 
orifice in patients with right ventricular volume or pressure overload.

PMID: 7175232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1924. Jpn J Antibiot. 1982 Jun;35(6):1567-78.

[Clinical results and safety of drip infusion of gentamicin in complicated
chronic urinary tract infections].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki K.

1. Clinical pharmacology: The pharmacological studies on gentamicin (GM) were
carried out in some clinical patients. The peak serum level following
intramuscular injection (i.m.) of GM 60 mg was 4.69 microgram/ml after 1 hour.
When same dose of the drug was given by drip infusion (d.i.) over 1.5 and 2
hours, the peak serum concentrations were 5.17 microgram/ml and 5.08
microgram/ml, respectively. No marked differences in the results of
pharmacokinetic studies between i.m. and d.i. were observed. 2.CLINICAL RESULTS: 
GM was administered in a dose of 60 mg once or twice a day by d.i. against 18
cases with chronic complicated UTIs. The duration of treatment varied but usually
5 days. An overall excellent or moderate effect was seen in 78% with the criteria
proposed by the UTI committee. 3. Clinical chemistry and laboratory findings: The
clinical abnormal values from laboratory tests of renal, hepatic functions and
peripheral hematology in patients treated with GM were observed in 1 case which
was a slight increase of BUN (12.5 approximately 22.2 mg/dl) and a slight
elevation of GOT (30.g approximately 48.6 u). The abnormal values, however,
returned to normal within 10 days after the discontinuance of the drug. 4.
Clinical tolerance: No adverse reactions were encountered in all treated cases.
5.
SUMMARY: Based on the clinical pharmacology and clinical studies, drip infusion
administration of GM can be given safely and effectively in treatment of chronic 
complicated UTI.

PMID: 7131769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1925. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1982 Jun;30(6 Pt 2):581-4.

[Treatment of peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ].

[Article in French]

de Fremont JF, Schmit JL, Thomas D, Coevoet B, Eb F, Laurence G, Orfila J,
Fournier A.

Thirty patients were treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis
during 313 patients months. 26 episodes of peritonitis defined by a cloudy
dialysate with more than 100 cells/mm1 and more than 50 p. cent of polynuclear
were observed. The organisms initially responsible were Gram-positive in 11 cases
(6 Staphylococcus aureus, 1 Staphylococcus albus, 4 Streptococcus viridans), a
gram negative in 3 cases (1 Klebsiella, 1 serratio, one unidentified), a Candida 
in 2 cases. In 10 cases, the culture was negative, Initial treatment was
peritoneal lavage (40 l/day) with in situ antibiotics: in the absence of Candida,
the association sulfamethoxazole (SMZ) (80 mg/l) and trimethoprim (TMP) (16 mg/l)
was used; when Candida was present amphotericin B (5 mg/l) was used. The
association SMZ + TMP led to cure of PT in 17 cases, in 7 +/- 4 days. In 5 cases,
this initial treatment was changed at the 48th hour because of initial resistance
in one case or secondary resistance of Candida surinfection (2 cases). Candida
surinfection occurred later in 2 other cases. For these 6 primary or secondary
Candida peritonitis, the catheter was changed within 48 hours. Nevertheless,
death occurred in 3 cases and cure was obtained after 51 +/- 11 days in the 3
other cases.CONCLUSIONS: 1) The initial treatment by SMZ + TMP appears quite
effective in most cases (73%). 2) The severity and the high incidence of Candida 
surinfection suggest that its systematic prophylaxis may be appropriate.

PMID: 6750528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1926. Plant Cell Rep. 1982 Jun;1(4):135-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00269181.

Cryopreservation of periwinkle, Catharanthus roseus cells cultured in vitro.

Kartha KK(1), Leung NL, Gaudet-Laprairie P, Constabel F.

Author information: 
(1)Prairie Regional Laboratory, National Research Council of Canada, S7N 0W9,
Saskatoon, Sask., Canada.

A procedure for prolonged cryogenic storage of periwinkle cell cultures is
described. Cells derived from periwinkle, Catharanthus roseus (L.) G. Don, and
subcultured as suspension in 1-B5C nutrient medium have been frozen, stored in
liquid nitrogen (-196°C) for 11 weeks, thawed and recultured. Maximal survival
was achieved when 3-4 day-old cells precultured for 24 h in nutrient medium with 
5% DMSO were frozen at slow cooling rates of 0.5 or 1°C/min prior to storage in
liquid nitrogen. The only loss in viability of cells occurred subsequent to
treatment with DMSO.ABBREVIATIONS: DMSO, dimethylsulfoxide; 2,4-D,
2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; TTC, triphenyltetrazolium chloride.

PMID: 24259127  [PubMed]


1927. Z Kardiol. 1982 Jun;71(6):406-12.

[Left ventricular contraction and relaxation in patients with congestive
cardiomyopathy during exercise].

[Article in German]

Tebbe U, Sauer G, Kreuzer H, Neuhaus KL.

Left ventricular (LV) contraction and relaxation were analysed in 16 patients
with congestive cardiomyopathy (COCM) at rest (R) and during supine bicycle
ergometer exercise (E), and were compared with 10 normals (N). In patients with
COCM, left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was significantly reduced at rest, 
but during exercise like in the normal patients there were no significant changes
(EFCOCM: 34 +/- 12% (R) and 35 +/- 10% (E);EFN: 72 +/- 5% (R) and 74 +/- 5% (E). 
LV-enddiastolic volume in COCM was more than 100% larger than in N. Left
ventricular filling pressures (PLVed) were elevated already at rest, the increase
during exercise was very similar to that of the normal group (COCM: 20.5 +/- 9.0 
(R), 33.3 +/- 7.6 (E) mm Hg, p less than 0.001; normal group: 11.1 +/- 2.2 (R),
18.7 +/- 5.9 (E) mm Hg, p less than 0.001). The increase of maximum dP/dt during 
exercise as an index of contractility reserve was distinctly lower in COCM (delta
means COCM: + 51%; delta means N: + 105%). Left ventricular relaxation as
measured from minimal dP/dt was significantly impaired already at rest in COCM
(COCM: -1109 +/- 329; N: -1832 +/- 468 mm Hg X s-1, p less than 0.001), the
increase of dP/dtmin during exercise (COCM + 37%) was similar to that of normal
patients (+ 35%). The time constant T of isovolumic pressure fall was
significantly prolonged at rest in COCM, and there were no changes during
exercise. After correction for the right atrial pressure rise during exercise,
the time contant T' was significantly shortened to the same extent in the normal 
group (COCM: (R) 44 +/- 9, (E) 36 +/- 10 ms; N: (R) 33 +/- 5, (E) 25 +/- 5 ms, p 
less than 0.001).CONCLUSIONS: In patients with COCM, changes of left ventricular 
ejection fraction during exercise are inconsistent; in the individual patient,
changes in global LV function during exercise cannot be predicted from EF at
rest. At rest, LV relaxation is prolonged, the lack of shortening of the time
constant T during exercise is thought to be mainly due to the pressure rise in
the pericardial space.

PMID: 7124059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1928. Z Kardiol. 1982 Jun;71(6):393-7.

[Effect of intracoronary nifedipine on coronary sinus blood flow and myocardial
oxygen consumption in patients with coronary artery disease].

[Article in German]

Schanzenbächer P, Liebau G, Deeg P, Kochsiek K.

Reflex sympathetic nerve activation obscures the direct myocardial effect of
Nifedipine after intravenous administration. Consequently, in 10 patients with
coronary artery disease 0.1 mg of Nifedipine were injected into the left coronary
artery to evaluate its specific effect on coronary sinus blood flow (CSF),
coronary vascular resistance (CVR), and myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2). One
minute after Nifedipine, CSF increased from 115 +/- 15 to 193 +/- 47 ml/min (p
less than 0.001), and CVR decreased from 0.92 +/- 0.16 to 0,54 +/- 0.12 mm Hg X
min X ml-1 (p less than 0.001). Mean aortic pressure dropped from 107 +/- 5 to 99
+/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). MVO2 was reduced from 14.6 +/- 2.6 to 11.7 +/-
2.8 ml O2 X min-1 (p less than 0.05). After five minutes CSF (113 +/- 18) and
MVO2 (14.9 +/- 3.1) had returned to their preinjection level. Additionally, CSF
and MVO2 were measured during rapid atrial pacing (mean rate 118 +/- 6 min-1).
Average CSF and MVO2 values were 172 +/- 63 and 19.8 +/- 5.0 before and 177 +/-
69 and 20.6 +/- 7.3 approximately 6 minutes after Nifedipine
injection.CONCLUSIONS: Intracoronary Nifedipine results in coronary vasodilation 
and subsequently in an increase in coronary flow. The concomitant reduction in
MVO2 provides evidence for an oxygen sparing, negative inotropic effect of
Nifedipine, which, however, is of very limited duration. A sustained
oxygen-saving effect during periods with increased oxygen demand could not be
shown.

PMID: 7124058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1929. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 1982 May;7(3):205-16. doi: 10.1007/BF02798298.

Recent progress in plant cell culture : Research on the production of useful
plant metabolites in Japan.

Misawa M(1), Suzuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo Research Laboratory, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd., Machida-shi, Tokyo, Japan.

CONCLUSIONS: Commercial application of plant cell cultures for the production of 
useful metabolites on a large scale has not yet been realized. However, some
recently published papers and patents seem very attractive for industrial use
because their results and techniques are apparently applicable to a large-scale
production of metabolites. The author believes that commercial success using
plant tissue cultures will be realized in the near future with advanced
techniques if product selection is determined by economic and political
principles.In 1982, the 5th International Congress of Plant Tissue and Cell
Culture will be held in Japan and this undoubtedly will encourage research
activity in our country.

PMID: 24234231  [PubMed]


1930. Can J Neurol Sci. 1982 May;9(2):221-9.

Pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in the liver, brain and adipose-tissue of
lipid-deprived developing rats. Effect of minute amounts of polyunsaturated fatty
acids.

Loriette C, Launay M, Lapous D, Raulin J.

The present experiment was carried out using the following diets: FF, fat-free,
and LP in same diet with 0.7% sunflower oil - given to the progeny of females
kept on the FF diet since the mating. after 10 mM Mg2+ activation of the PDH
phosphatase, and rate of [1-14C[ pyruvate decarboxylation into acetyl-CoA ester
units was determined in the liver, brain and adipose-tissue of the pair-fed
developing rats.RESULTS: In the male progeny, pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH)
activity was higher (61%) in the LP group livers than in the FF group livers, at 
the end of the 13 week experiment. Such a difference was not observed in the two 
group brains up to the 91 days postweaning, but was even larger (94%) between
adipose-tissues of the LP and FF groups. In the female progeny kept 12 weeks on
the diets, PDH activity in the LP group tissues was also higher than in the FF
group tissues: 63% in the liver, 43% in adipose-tissues, and less than 10% in the
brain. Therefore, a minute amount of lipids high in linoleic acid appeared to
increase PDH activity, and especially in the liver and adipose-tissues of animals
kept on a strictly fat-free diet. This stimulation of the PDH activity seems
closely related to the phospholipid rehabilitation in the tissues (decrease in
the trienoic, tetraenoic acid ratio values).

PMID: 7104887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1931. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1982 May;56(5):399-414.

[Experimental studies on "less rigid" polyacetal plates for fracture fixation
(author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kusunose K.

It is a well known fact that rigid and prolonged internal fixation of a fracture 
with a stiff plate yields osteoporosis. In order to solve this problem, so called
"less rigid" plates made of various plastic materials have been tested by some
workers experimentally, but they are not widely accepted yet for clinical use,
for the plastic material used lacked sufficient strength to secure stable
osteosynthesis. This paper presents a series of experimental studies using
polyacetal (polyoxymethylene--POM) materials which have relatively larger
strength, for the fixation of canine fractures.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Experiment 
I--Alteration of material strength in vivo: Dumb-bell shaped test pieces were
made of three different POM plastics; 1, acetal copolymer alone (M90), 2, acetal 
copolymer reinforced with 20% carbon fiber (CR20) and 3. acetal copolymer with
20% fluorine (YF20). Tensile strength was measured after imbedding the test piece
between the vastus lateralis and the biceps femoris of dogs for eight months. The
results were compared with those before imbedding. Experiment II--Fracture
healing study: After applying a POM plate or a stainless-steel plate (AO
one-third tubular plate) on an adult canine femur with four stainless-stell
screws, the femur was osteotomized at the center with a Gigli saw to produce a
transverse fracture. Postoperative roentgenograms were taken periodically. After 
sufficient bone union on roentgenogram, the animal was sacrificed to excise the
femur for three point bending test applying up to 30 kg load posteriorly to the
femur to measure ultimate strength, deflexion at the center and strains at the
anterior portion of the bone.
RESULTS: Experiment I: A certain decrease in tensile strength was noted in the
three tested materials. Experiment II: 1) With M90 plates, there was considerable
tendency toward delayed union, which would have been due to insufficient strength
of the plate. 2) No significant difference in the period required for bone union 
was noted between the CR20 and the AO plate groups, while the former tended to
produce larger callus. 3) The ultimate strength of the united bone following CR20
of AO plate fixation ranged from 50 to 55% of that of the contralateral
non-osteotomized femur. There was no significant difference between the two plate
groups. 4) The deflexion at the center was significantly less in the CR20 group
under low load, irrespective to the difference in the amount of the ultimate
strength. 5) The strain at the fracture site was extremely large in the AOI group
compared to those at the other sites, which would indicate uneven strength
distribution, while the strains were relatively even in the CR20 group as in the 
non-osteotomized femur. The results of the experiments suggest possibilities of
using reinforced polyacetal plates for better fracture fixation.

PMID: 7108319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1932. Z Kardiol. 1982 May;71(5):326-33.

[Relation between coronary obstructions, left ventricular wall motion and
regional myocardial blood flow in single-vessel coronary artery disease (author's
transl)].

[Article in German]

Engel HJ, Lichtlen PR, Hundeshagen H.

Regional myocardial blood flow was studied at rest in 72 patients with a typical 
history of angina pectoris and/or myocardial infarction using the 133Xenon
clearance technique. 62 patients had isolated greater than 50% obstructions of
the left anterior descending or of the left circumflex branch, 10 patients had
segmental asynergy yet no or only minimal (less than 35%) coronary obstructions. 
In each patient, flow of the poststenotic (asynergic) LV wall area was related to
flow of the normal area (= 100%). Coronary obstructions were measured in multiple
projections using a vernier, and segmental wall motion was quantitated by
systolic halfaxial shortening.RESULTS: A progressive decrease of poststenotic
flow was found with increasing severity of coronary obstructions: in relation to 
the respective normal areas, poststenotic flow was reduced to 84% distal to
50-75% obstructions (p less than 0.01), to 75% distal to 76-90% obstructions (p
less than 0.0005), and to 67% distal to less than 90% obstructions (p less than
0.0005). However, analysis of poststenotic LV wall motion suggested that flow was
correlated more closely to poststenotic wall motion: in hypokinetic areas, flow
was reduced to 75% (p less than 0.0005), and in akinetic areas to 55% (p less
than 0.0005) whereas in poststenotic areas with normal wall motion resting flow
was normal regardless of the severity of coronary obstructions. Furthermore, the 
reduction of flow in asynergic areas of patients without coronary obstructions
was comparable to flow in asynergic areas supplied by severely stenosed vessels. 
Thus in chronic coronary heart disease, regional myocardial blood flow correlates
not only to the severity of coronary obstructions but also to segmental left
ventricular wall motion.

PMID: 7113325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1933. Anaesthesist. 1982 Apr;31(4):155-60.

[Haemodynamic changes in infrarenal aortic aneurysm operations (author's
transl)].

[Article in German]

Schmucker P, Franke N, Vogel H, Martin E, van Ackern K, Laubenthal H, Becker HM.

Haemodynamic changes after aortic cross-clamping were measured during operation
of 11 patients suffering from infrarenal aortic aneurysm. Systemic vascular
resistance, mean arterial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure are
increased, while cardiac index is significantly decreased. Heart rate and right
atrial pressure remain nearly unchanged. The elevations in systemic vascular
resistance, mean arterial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure are
reversed by continuous nitroglycerin infusion, cardiac index is
increased.CONCLUSIONS: 1. meticulous haemodynamic monitoring is very important in
operations including abdominal aortic cross-clamping in order to prevent imminent
cardiac complications. 2. the haemodynamic changes induced by aortic
cross-clamping can be reversed by infusion of nitroglycerin.

PMID: 6807127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1934. Cancer. 1982 Apr 1;49(7):1476-80.

Parenteral nutrition and human gastrointestinal tumor protein metabolism.

Stein TP, Buzby GP, Leskiw MJ, Mullen JL.

We determined the tissue free amino acid distribution in human gastrointestinal
tumors and the adjacent normal tissue in two groups of patients. The patients
were maintained on dietary control for 7--10 days prior to the surgical removal
of the tumor. Patients in Group I ate the house diet ad lib. Their nutritional
intake was about half their normal requirement. The second group received
parenteral nutrition. Both groups were equally malnourished at the beginning of
the period of nutritional control. Group I were 88.2 +/- 7.8% of ideal body
weight and Group II, 90.6 +/- 13.8% of ideal body weight. The net calorie and
nitrogen intake was about double that of Group I. Tissue-free amino acid analyses
were done by gas chromatography.RESULTS: There was a statistically significant
increase in the essential amino acids in the tumor tissue relative to the normal 
tissue in Group II, in contrast to the orally fed Group I where no discernible
differences were found.

PMID: 6800637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1935. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1982 Apr;16(4):383-90.

Serum lipids, postheparin plasma lipase activities and glucose tolerance in
patients with prolactinoma.

Pelkonen R, Nikkilä EA, Grahne B.

Serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were determined in forty-seven
women with prolactinoma and in eighty-four age- and weight-matched control women.
Oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) were performed and postheparin plasma
lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and hepatic lipase (HL) activities were determined in
twelve patients before and after transsphenoidal removal of the prolactinoma. The
mean levels of serum cholesterol and triglyceride were significantly higher in
patients than in controls. The 90% cut-off line of controls for serum cholesterol
was exceeded by 36% and that for serum triglyceride by 23% of the patients. The
triglyceride levels were raised only in patients with GH-deficiency whereas
patients with normal GH secretion had normal triglyceride. Plasma LPL activity
was significantly reduced whereas plasma HL activity was in the upper range of
normal. After the removal of prolactinoma the serum prolactin levels decreased in
all patients and seven started to menstruate. The oral glucose tolerance was
improved and the plasma insulin response decreased. Serum lipid levels and the
lipase activities, however, did not change.CONCLUSION: prolactinoma is associated
with metabolic abnormalities characterized by hyperlipidaemia, low plasma LPL
activity and insulin resistance.

PMID: 7047001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1936. Eur J Clin Invest. 1982 Apr;12(2):151-5.

The value of plasma prolactin levels in the prediction of the responsiveness of
growth hormone secretion to bromocriptine and TRH in acromegaly.

Lamberts SW, Liuzzi A, Chiodini PG, Verde S, Klijn JG, Birkenhäger JC.

The mechanism of the inhibition of growth hormone secretion in response to
bromocriptine and the ability of thyrotropin releasing hormone to stimulate
growth secretion in acromegaly is unknown. In the present study the relationship 
between the plasma prolactin concentration of untreated acromegalic patients and 
the reaction of growth hormone to thyrotropin releasing hormone and bromocriptine
was investigated. Plasma prolactin levels were elevated in thirty-three (42%) of 
seventy-nine untreated acromegalic patients. Seventeen patients had mildly
elevated prolactin levels, but in sixteen the plasma prolactin concentration was 
higher than 30 ng/ml. Bromocriptine (2.5 mg) inhibited growth hormone secretion
by more than 50% in 22% of the normoprolactinaemic, in 53% of the mild
hyperprolactinaemic and in 88% of the patients with a prolactin level above 30
ng/ml (P less than 0.01 v. normoprolactinaemic; P less than 0.01 v. mildly
elevated prolactin levels). An increase of growth hormone secretion by more than 
100% of the basal value in response to thyrotropin releasing hormone was observed
in 44% of the normoprolactinaemic, in 59% of the mildly hyperprolactinaemic and
in 75% of the clearly hyperprolactinaemic patients; (P less than 0.01 v. normo-
and mildly hyperprolactinaemic patients).CONCLUSION: An increased plasma
prolactin concentration in patients with acromegaly is accompanied in most
patients by a higher sensitivity of growth hormone secretion to bromocriptine.

PMID: 6807686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1937. J Electrocardiol. 1982 Apr;15(2):173-9.

The effect of left ventricular aneurysmectomy on the electrocardiogram: a study
of 77 patients and review of the literature.

Vasilomanolakis EC, Ruggie N, Codini M, Messer JV, Denes P.

Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were reviewed in patients undergoing left ventricular
aneurysmectomy. Post-operatively, significant decreases were noted in ST segment 
elevation (p less than 0.001) and anterior (p less than 0.03) and inferior R wave
heights (p less than 0.002). In addition, abnormal Q waves disappeared in 50% of 
patients. Comparison of ECG changes between survivors and patients dying of
cardiac related events revealed that patients with a preoperative axis of greater
than or equal to 60 degrees, postoperative leftward axis shifts and a marked
decrease in ST segment elevation and/or R wave height had significantly higher
mortality.CONCLUSION: 1) Left ventricular aneurysmectomy affects ventricular
depolarization as evidenced by a significant loss of R wave height and changes in
infarct pattern; 2) LVA affects ventricular repolarization as evidenced by a
significant decrease in ST elevation; 3) the ventricular aneurysm appears to
contain "viable muscle" that contributes to ventricular depolarization and
remains partially depolarized during diastole; and 4) there are prognostic
electrocardiographic parameters, which correlate with mortality during
postoperative follow-up.

PMID: 7069335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1938. J Trauma. 1982 Apr;22(4):295-302.

An integrated university emergency medicine - trauma program.

Geis WP, Altergott RA, Giacchino JL, Freeark RJ.

Systems for prehospital care, emergency medical care, and trauma care clearly
overlap educationally, medically, financially, and politically. Most systems have
not accomplished separation of this interdisciplinary tangle. To solve this
dilemma we have customized an Emergency Medicine and Trauma Service (EM & TS) at 
a regional trauma medical center. The program (annually): 1)treats 32,000
patients (11,330 are trauma); 2) educates 140 paramedics, residents, students.
Physician personnel: Members are fully trained in Internal Medicine, Surgery, or 
Pediatrics; are members of other academic departments. Each is approved by three 
chairman: Emergency Department, The physician's specialty, and Surgery,
Structure: Board-qualified trauma surgeon always present; other faculty
supplement surgical manpower; physicians are salaried; each is responsible to
Director of EM & TS; trainees are not included as patient-care manpower.
Organization: Academically, EM & TS is a Section of the Department of Surgery;
the Section Chief is Director of EM & TS, and is responsible for Emergency
Department, prehospital care, and trauma admissions.THE SOLUTION: A vertical
responsibility structure to this multidisciplinary system has provided a
successful solution and may be tailored to other systems.

PMID: 7077688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1939. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1982 Apr-May;186(2):59-64.

[Cord clamping at birth - considerations for choosing the right time (author's
transl)].

[Article in German]

Künzel W.

From the historical point of view, cord clamping has been performed in natural
child birth some time after the fetus has been delivered and after the expulsion 
of the placenta. In 1877 already Hayem could show that in late cord clamping (LC)
the concentration of erythrocytes in the newborn blood is elevated if compared to
early clamping (EC) of the unbilical cord. It was concluded that is was a result 
of placental transfusion. The underlying mechanism of the placental transfusion
is the hydrostatic pressure between the placenta and the fetus, supported by
uterine contraction and the time of cord clamping after birth. Placental
transfusion is diminished if cord clamping is performed in less than 180 sec and 
if the newborn baby is positioned 20 cm and more above the placental insertion.
The newborn responds to placental transfusion with an increase of hemoglobin and 
hematocrit, an elevated blood pressure, although significant differences in
cardiac output could not be established. Renal function is increased and
effective renal blood flow associated with the blood volume of the newborn. In
cases of caesarean section a higher incidence of respiratory distress occurs if
placental transfusion does not take place. In utero placental transfusion occurs 
if the fetus is hypoxic obviously to increase the oxygen supply to the fetal
tissue.IN CONCLUSION: "In order to give the newborn the blood, that it need
physiologically cord clamping should be performed not immediately after birth,
but one should wait as long until the umbilical vein has been empty and is
collapsed." (Bumm 1902).

PMID: 7202297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1940. Zentralbl Bakteriol Mikrobiol Hyg B. 1982 Apr;176(1):72-8.

[Studies on the influence of positive or negative small ions on the catechol
amine content in the brain of the mouse following shorttime or prolonged exposure
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Udermann H, Fischer G.

Mice were exposed to an atmosphere enriched with positive or negative small ions 
(density: 52000 each of positive or negative charge carriers/cm3 air); after the 
exposure times of 5, 30 min and 1, 3, 10 d, we determined the norepinephrine
content of the brain.RESULTS: In the case of negative ionization of the air, no
difference to untreated controls could be determined at any of the above exposure
times. Positive ions, however, cause an elevated norepinephrine level after an
exposure time of up to one day; after the exposure times of 3 to 10 d, a drop in 
the norepinephrine level could be observed in comparison to the control data.
CONCLUSION: Negative ions have a neutral effect under the given bioclimatologic
conditions. However, positive charge carriers cause stress after shorttime
application in excess. After longer exposure, a state of exhaustion can be
observed in the form of a lowered norepinephrine level.

PMID: 7113513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1941. Endocrinology. 1982 Mar;110(3):1013-7.

Nutrient-induced priming of insulin and glucagon secretion. Effects of
alpha-ketoisocaproic acid.

Grill V.

Previous exposure to glucose enhances the insulin and depresses the glucagon
response to subsequent stimulation with different secretagogues. Induction of
these priming effects of glucose requires the metabolism of the sugar. To
investigate whether induction of the priming effect of glucose is coupled to
glycolysis, other nutrients were tested for their ability to mimic the glucose
effect. In isolated perfused rat pancreas prior exposure for 30 min to 10 mM
D-glyceraldehyde or 10 mM alpha-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) enhanced the insulin
response to subsequent stimulation with 3-isobutyl-methylxanthine (P less than
0.01); 20 mM pyruvate, 10 mM octanate, 20 mM succinate, or 20 mM citrate were
ineffective. The priming effect of KIC was also investigated in relation to
subsequent stimulation with a second, identical pulse of KIC. Five millimolar KIC
evoked a marked first phase insulin release, followed by a small and constant
second phase insulin release. When KIC was reintroduced, the first phase was
enhanced (by 100%), and the peak response appeared 1 min earlier; whereas second 
phase insulin release was unaffected. A priming effect of KIC on arginine-induced
glucagon secretion was tested after perfusion for 20 min with 10 mM KIC before
the introduction of 8 mM L-arginine. Previous exposure to KIC did not
significantly inhibit glucagon secretion, whereas the concomitant insulin release
was augmented.CONCLUSION: the ability of nutrient secretagogues to induce priming
of insulin secretion does not depend on the glycolytic pathway but may correlate 
with the degree of oxidative metabolism of these substrates.

PMID: 6173206  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1942. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Mar;64(3):408-15.

Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome. A histochemical study of the growth plate.

Horton WA, Scott CI.

The Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome is a rare inherited disorder in which a
major feature, the skeletal dysplasia, is thought to result from a defect in
endochondral ossification. To further characterize this disturbance,
histochemical studies were performed on an iliac-crest biopsy specimen from a
patient with disorder. The use of plastic embedding methods permitted previous
observations, which were based on decalcified paraffin-embedded tissues, to be
extended and a variety of new ones to be made. The resting cartilage matrix was
very fibrous. In many areas it consisted of randomly oriented bundles of loosely 
woven fibers that stained as collagen. The chondrocytes in this region were
excessively vacuolated and many contained cytoplasmic inclusions that stained
non-specifically as protein. Cartilage canals were prominent in the resting
cartilage. In many areas, clusters of degenerating chondrocytes and occasional
vacuolar lesions replaced the columns of proliferating and maturing cells that
normally occupy the growth-plate region. There was coarse and irregular
calcification of these clusters at the chondro-osseous junction, and
intracartilaginous ossification was also found.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These
observations further define the histological criteria for the diagnosis of this
disorder and provide new insights into its pathogenesis.

PMID: 6277958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1943. J Cardiogr. 1982 Mar;12(1):11-22.

[Evaluation of mitral valve, subvalvular structures and valvular flexibility in
mitral stenosis by two-dimensional echocardiography].

[Article in Japanese]

Tani M, Murayama A, Ohnishi S, Ogawa S, Handa S, Nakamura Y, Maehara M, Soma Y,
Inoue T.

In order to identify the determinants for surgical procedures in mitral stenosis,
we evaluated two-dimensional echocardiographic findings of the mitral valve and
subvalvular structures in 35 patients undergoing open mitral commissurotomy (OMC)
or valve replacement (MVR). As indices of a degree of subvalvular shortening and 
valvular flexibility, the distance between the mitral ring and the tip of the
anterior mitral leaflet was measured by the LV long-axis view by in both
midsystole (S) and early diastole (D). As a possible major determinant for MVR, a
degree of valvular calcification (C) was semi-quantatively scored according to
the extent of abnormally strong echo density. In nine of 11 patients undergoing
MVR, a main reason for selecting MVR was a marked thickening or shortening of
subvalvular structures. In patients in whom OMC was feasible, the degree of
improvement of the mitral valve area (delta MVA) was assessed by the pre- and
post-operative mitral valve areas (MVA) measured on the LV short-axis view, which
were averaged 0.15 and 1.38 cm2, respectively.RESULTS: The index C was
significantly higher in cases with MVR than those with OMC (9.2 +/- 2.6 vs 4.7
+/- 2.3 points, p less than 0.001), although there was a significant overlap
between these two groups and index C did not correlate with delta MVA in the OMC 
patients. Similarly, the value S was significantly smaller in patients undergoing
MVR than those undergoing OMC (1.2 +/- 0.4 vs 0.7 +/- 0.2 cm, p less than 0.001),
though S did not correlate with delta MVA. On the other hand, the index of valve 
flexibility D--S was smaller in patients undergoing MVR (0.5 +/- 0.3 vs 0.8 +/-
0.3 cm, p less than 0.05) and correlated well with delta MVA (delta MVA = 0.699 x
(D--S)+0.007, R = 0.678, p less than 0.02) in patients undergoing OMC.
Furthermore, in all patients undergoing OMC with D--S greater than or equal to
0.8 cm, delta MVA was above 0.5 cm2, contrasting with delta MVA of 0.5 cm2 or
less in 6 of 7 patients with D--S less than 0.7 cm. Using these indices, surgical
procedures were successfully predicted in another 7 prospectively studied
patients and predicted delta MVA in 4 patients was quite comparable with actual
delta MVA. It was concluded that measurements of S and D by two-dimensional
echocardiography are useful, 1) to predict patients requiring MVR and 2) to
predict patients with inadequate delta MVA in whom OMC is surgically feasible.

PMID: 7119486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1944. Jpn J Antibiot. 1982 Mar;35(3):789-93.

[Clinical report of an aged patient with lung abscess who show an excellent
response after long-term administration of amikacin (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamaguchi T.

The patient we report here is a 71 year-old female. After hospitalization, she
had clouding of consciousness as an accompanying symptom of DIC (disseminated
intravascular coagulation) complicated by septicemia. Her clouding of
consciousness caused aspiration pneumonia which developed into pulmonary abscess.
Furthermore, she had a large decubital ulcer on the gluteal region. Sputum
cultures revealed P. aeruginosa, Serratia and Klebsiella and those from decubital
pus grew Proteus, showing to be a mixed infection due to Gram-negative bacilli
which brings on medical discussion at present. To the patient, repeated
intramuscular AMK was administered at a daily dose of 200 mg (DURATION: 124 days,
Total amount: 24,800 mg). Chest X-P showed a marked improvement. Similarly, the
large decubital ulcer was improved. No side-effects were observed in the kidney
and eighth nerve though she was a patient with the advanced age of 71. It is
thought, therefore, that patients can tolerate long-term treatment with AMK.

PMID: 7097981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1945. Jpn J Antibiot. 1982 Mar;35(3):739-53.

[Clinical studies on 9, 3"-diacetylmidecamycin in respiratory tract infections in
the field of pediatrics (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwai N, Sasaki A, Taneda Y, Mizoguchi F, Nakamura H.

Laboratory and clinical studies were performed on 9, 3"-diacetylmidecamycin
(MOM), a new macrolide antibiotic in the field of pediatrics, and the results
were as follows. Antibacterial activity: For 32 clinically isolated strains of
Staphylococcus aureus, the MIC of MOM ranged from 0.78 to 1.56 micrograms/ml for 
17 of the 32 strains, and exceeded 100 micrograms/ml for the 15 remaining strains
with both inoculum sizes of 10(8) cells/ml and 10(6) cells/ml. For 27 strains of 
Streptococcus pyogenes, the MIC range was wide, varying from 0.10 to greater than
or equal to 100 micrograms/ml and less than 1.56 micrograms/ml for about 2/3 of
all the 27 strains. For 9 strains of Bordetella pertussis, the MIC ranged from
0.10 to 0.78 microgram/ml and 0.10 to 0.39 microgram/ml with the inoculum size of
10(8) cells/ml and 10(6) cells/ml, respectively. Comparing the antibacterial
activity of MOM with that of midecamycin (MDM) and erythromycin (EM) against
these 3 bacterial species, MOM was almost comparable to MDM, but about 2 or 3
tubes inferior to EM. Absorption and excretion: MOM was administered to 5
children (from 5 to 8 years old) at a dose of 10 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg at 30 minutes 
before breakfast. The peak of serum concentration was observed 30 minutes to 1
hour after administrations of both dosages: 0.52 to 1.71 micrograms/ml with 10
mg/kg and 0.88 to 1.77 micrograms/ml with 20 mg/kg. 0.09 to 1.10% and 0.94 to
1.19% of MOM were excreted in the urine within the first 6 hours,
respectively.CLINICAL RESULTS: MOM was administered to 28 pediatric patients with
acute respiratory tract infections (acute pharyngitis; 2, acute purulent
tonsillitis; 19, acute bronchitis; 4, acute pneumonia; 2 and whooping cough; 1). 
The overall clinical response was excellent in 10, good in 10, fair in 3 and poor
in 5; the efficacy rate was 71.4%. Isolated S. pyogenes strains were eradicated
in 6 out of 11 strains, reduced in 3 and unchanged in 2 strains. One strain of S.
aureus was eradicated. One strain of non group A beta-Streptococcus was reduced. 
Haemophilus influenzae strains were reduced in 1 of the 4 strains and unchanged
in 3 strains. The overall eradication rate was 41.2%. No side effects or abnormal
laboratory findings were observed, but 1 case complained of a bitter taste.

PMID: 6285015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1946. Undersea Biomed Res. 1982 Mar;9(1):1-14.

Central nervous system reactions during heliox and trimix dives to 31 ATA.

Vaernes R, Bennett PB, Hammerborg D, Ellertsen B, Peterson RE, Tøonjum S.

Two groups of divers were compressed to 300 msw (984 fsw) with heliox (n = 3) and
trimix (n = 3). Neuropsychological/neurological testing was performed repeatedly 
during the compression and on reaching 250 (820 fsw) and 300 msw. On the second
day the trimix group was tested before and after a gas change to heliox. For the 
heliox group there was a marked increase in tremor and EEG slow waves, and
reduction of alpha band and in hand-grip strength. For the trimix group
visuomotor coordination was impaired. In the cognitive performance tests the
heliox group was most impaired at 250 msw, whereas the trimix group was most
impaired at 300 msw. Before the gas change to heliox the trimix group showed
impaired performance in some tests. After the gas change, performance returned to
predive levels, except for perceptual speed. There was an increase in tremor
immediately after the gas change.CONCLUSION: There was a marked HPNS effect
during compression on heliox. This effect was not observed in the trimix group,
but this group was mildly intoxicated on reaching saturation depth. The tests
indicated slight narcotic effects also after 26 h, but this disappeared after the
change in heliox.

PMID: 7090080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1947. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1982 Mar;21(1):57-66.

[Long-term effects of various levels of dietary proteins as well as starch and
sucrose as dietary carbohydrates on lipoprotein metabolism in the rat].

[Article in German]

Scharm M, Menden E.

The repeatedly reported effect of proteins on lipoprotein metabolism leaves the
question if this is caused mainly by the amount of amino acid composition of the 
protein itself, by the accompanying fat of cholesterol content, or by the
contemporary predominant kind of carbohydrate in the diet. The conducted
experiments with male rats, feeding them in 6 groups of 20 animals for one year
semipurified, cholesterol-free diets with constantly 40 (J-)% fat in all diets,
13% (I), 20% (II, III, IV) or 40% (V, VI) protein and complementary carbohydrates
(50% starch, 50% sucrose). III received sucrose only, IV starch only. VI was
given additionally 0.8% arginine (arg). Rats on 40% protein exhibited higher
total plasma cholesterol levels in comparison to 13% protein, HDL values were
nearly identical in I, II, III, IV, and increased in V and VI. LDL was increased 
in V, compared to all other groups.CONCLUSION: The level of dietary protein alone
may influence amount and distribution of lipoproteins in rats. LDL may be
decreased by addition of arg, HDL remains unchanged. The type of carbohydrate had
no influence on HDL or LDL on conditions of our experiment, whereas earlier
experiments showed elevation of LDL values with sucrose in comparison to starch
if cholesterol was present in the diet.

PMID: 7072278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1948. Anaesthesist. 1982 Feb;31(2):51-60.

Etomidate-analgesic combinations for the induction of anaesthesia in cardiac
patients. Part I: Studies in patients with coronary artery disease.

Karliczek GF, Brenken U, Schokkenbroek R, van der Broeke JJ, Richardson FJ, van
der Heide JN.

In a total of 150 patients undergoing coronary revascularization procedures
etomidate was given for the induction of anaesthesia using 12 different dosages
and combinations with piritramide, morphine, fentanyl and nitrous oxide. The aim 
of this study was to establish a method which would result in the smallest
possible changes in arterial blood pressure and heart rate during the whole of
the induction period, including the stressful phase of endotracheal intubation.
In 68 patients cardiac output and pulmonary artery pressure were also
measured.RESULTS: 1. In general, more favourable results were obtained when
anaesthetic drugs were administered extremely slowly (e.g. by infusion) and
according to a standardized dosetime regime. Conversely, the commonly used method
- slow incremental injections according to the estimated requirements of the
individual patient - led to much greater variations of arterial pressure,
especially when fentanyl was combined with etomidate. 2. Combinations of
etomidate and morphine led to unsatisfactory results. Dependent on the dose
given, hypertension or hypotension were commonly seen. When piritramide was
substituted for morphine much more stable haemodynamic conditions were obtained. 
3. Surveying our investigations to find the most suitable dose relationship
between the hypnotic, etomidate, and the opioid analgesic, piritramide, only
small and negligible differences were found: comparing two procedures for the
induction of anaesthesia using either high dose piritramide (3 mg . kg-1 given
over 10 min), supplemented by low dose etomidate (0.1 mg . kg-1 given over the
first 2 min) or an etomidate infusion (50 gamma . kg-1 . min-1) supplemented by a
low dose piritramide (0.3 mg . kg-1 given over 1 min) excellent results were
found in both groups. 4. In contrast, studies aimed at achieving equally
favourable results using the combination of etomidate-fentanyl suggested that the
safe dose-range of fentanyl is very narrow: etomidate-infusion (50 gamma . kg-1 .
min-1) together with fentanyl 3 gamma . kg-1 led to unacceptable rises in blood
pressure and heart rate after intubation, and the larger dose of 6 gamma . kg-1
fentanyl frequently led to hypotension.

PMID: 7081718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1949. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Feb;64(2):225-30.

Isotopic evidence for resorption of soft tissues and bone in immobilized dogs.

Klein L, Player JS, Heiple KG, Bahniuk E, Goldberg VM.

Various experimental methods for producing bone and ligament atrophy have yielded
contradictory results. These methods include denervation, immobilization (both
internal and external), and disarticulation. We studied a model of internal
skeletal fixation for twelve weeks in dogs that were chronically prelabeled with 
3H-tetracycline, 45Ca, and 3H-proline. Bone resorption was analyzed by the loss
of 3H-tetracycline, and bone and soft-tissue mass were analyzed by the
radiochemical and chemical analysis of calcium and collagen. The strength of the 
anterior cruciate ligament was studied in tension to failure when a fast rate of 
deformation was applied. Failure of the femur-ligament-tibia complex occurred
through the insertion of the ligament into the tibia for both the experimental
and the control limbs. Loss of collagen was greater in the tibia and femur than
in the lateral meniscus and anterior cruciate ligament, and correlated with a
mechanical failure via bone. No evidence for collagen replacement in atrophied
tissues was found, but one-half of the resorbed calcium was conserved. The marked
loss of 3H-tetracycline indicated that bone atrophy was the result of increased
resorption of bone rather than decreased bone formation.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: We
have demonstrated significant atrophy of the soft tissues (lateral meniscus and
anterior cruciate ligament) as well as of bone in immobilized joints of dogs. It 
is likely that the decrease in strength of the bone-ligament-bone complex is
related to this atrophy of soft tissues and bone around the joint.

PMID: 7056777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1950. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Feb;64(2):217-24.

Anterior cruciate ligament replacement using patellar tendon. An evaluation of
graft revascularization in the dog.

Arnoczky SP, Tarvin GB, Marshall JL.

We investigated the revascularization pattern of patellar tendon grafts used to
replace the anterior cruciate ligament in thirty-six dogs by histological and
tissue-clearing (Spalteholz) techniques. Initially the grafts were avascular, but
by six weeks they were completely ensheathed in a vascular synovial envelope. The
soft tissues of the infrapatellar fat pad, the tibial remnant of the anterior
cruciate ligament, and the posterior synovial tissues contributed to this
synovial vasculature. Intrinsic revascularization of the patellar tendon graft
progressed from the proximal and distal portions of the graft centrally and was
complete by twenty weeks. The tibial attachment of the patellar tendon graft did 
not contribute any vessels to the revascularization process. At one year, the
vascular and histological appearance of the patellar tendon graft resembled that 
of a normal anterior cruciate ligament.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The absence of
perfused vessels within the patellar tendon graft immediately after
transplantation within the knee joint and the failure of the osseous insertion of
the graft to contribute vessels to the revascularization process suggest that
although it is left attached at the tibia, the patellar tendon graft is
essentially an avascular free graft at transplantation. The contribution of the
soft tissues of the knee to the revascularization process of the graft suggests
preservation and utilization of the infrapatellar fat pad and synovial tissue to 
optimize the graft's revascularization and ultimate viability.

PMID: 7056776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1951. Doc Ophthalmol. 1982 Jan 29;52(3-4):387-91.

Pseudo-tumours, a clinical concept.

Peeters HJ, van Heerde P, Feltkamp-Vroom TM.

Space-filling lesions in the orbit can be divided into 3 large groups: 1. Acute
and subacute inflammatory processes (bacterial, fungal, parasitic, foreign body).
2. Benign and malignant tumours, true new growths. 3. Pseudo-tumours. The
conditions in group 3 are also space-filling lesions, but have the
characteristics of a chronic, infiltrating, inflammatory process. In 11% of 340
consecutive patients in the Orbital Centre in Amsterdam this diagnosis was made. 
The group is far from uniform: the dominant cell type varies from one case to
another. Usually lymphocytic cells are dominant; if these are arranged in
follicles the lesion is called a pseudo-lymphoma. This condition can gradually
leave the province of the pseudo-tumours and begin to show the characteristics of
a malignant or non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Sometimes the inflammatory character of the 
lymphoid infiltration is dominant, as in myositis, sclerotenonitis and
infiltrative Graves' ophthalmopathy; these conditions are clearly related to
immunological processes. Attempts to classify all pseudo-tumours on a
pathological basis have remained rather vague.CLINICAL PICTURE: rapid development
(2-6 months); pain and oedema are present, but these are not the principal
symptoms; secondary features are: disorders of motility, visual loss and other
symptoms. Bilaterality usually indicates the presence of a systemic disease.

PMID: 6896027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1952. Acta Paediatr Scand. 1982 Jan;71(1):63-9.

Effects of injected lipid emulsion on oxygen consumption, RQ, triglyceride,
free-fatty-acid and beta-hydroxybutyrate levels in small-for-gestational-age
(SGA) infants.

Sabel KG, Olegård R, Hildingsson K, Karlberg P.

Ten SGA infants were studied from 4 hours after birth (day l) and again at 28
hours (day 2) before and for 4 hours after single injections of 0.5 g of
Intralipid fat/kg b.w. (IL-group). Eight other SGA infants were given 9-10 ml/kg 
of breast milk (BM-group). After lipid injection the elimination of triglycerides
(TG) from plasma was markedly delayed. On day 2 lipolysis had improved but was
still slower than in previously studied AGA infants. The initial FFA plasma level
was higher on day 1 than on day 2. Oxidation of released fatty acids was
confirmed by a significant increase of VO2 and a decrease of RQ on day 1 and 2.
In all infants the beta-hydroxybutyrate level in plasma increased and was still
elevated 4 hours after injection of fat. A negative correlation was found between
beta-hydroxybutyrate levels and RQ. In the BM-group changes in TG and
beta-hydroxybutyrate levels were small and insignificant. FFA had decreased 60
min after breast milk on day 1.IN CONCLUSION: TG elimination from plasma was
impaired on day 1 and had slightly improved on day 2. The fatty acids released by
lipolysis were oxidized as seen by increasing VO2, falling RQ and increasing
beta-hydroxybutyrate plasma levels both on day 1 and day 2.

PMID: 7136619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1953. Acta Paediatr Scand Suppl. 1982;296:62-6.

Influence of thermoregulation on energy metabolism of the low birthweight infant.

Putet G, Dittmar A, Schmitt M, Salle B.

By combining continuous measurements and recordings of (a) 02 consumption and CO2
production, (b) core, mean skin and temperature, (c) "radiative and convective"
(R + C) heat loss, we have tried to assess the characteristics and effiency of
different heating systems in the usual environment of an intensive care
unit.PRELIMINARY RESULTS: minimal heat loss is obtained in an incubator with
manual temperature control versus serocontrolled incubator on radiant heater; the
radiant heater can maintain adequate core temperature but with higher than normal
heat loss from the sides of the body and increased warming only of the skin
facing the heater; metabotic rate measurements do not show any statistical
difference between these various environments; both with an incubator and a
radiant heater, a thin plastic sheet (used as heatshield) lowers "R + C" heat
loss.

PMID: 6961748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1954. Am J Chin Med. 1982;10(1-4):55-8.

The effects of treatment with antibiotics, laser and acupuncture upon chronic
maxillary sinusitis in children.

Pothman R, Yeh HL.

In a clinical study we compared three different types of therapy in chronic
maxillary sinusitis. 45 patients, 3-40 years old, were treated, 19 with
antibiotics, 18 with acupuncture and 8 with Laser-acupuncture. There was no
statistical difference of results between Laser-therapy and antibiotics
(Chi-Square-Test). Compared to previous treatments with antibiotics, results and 
duration of improvement was significantly better after acupuncture.CONCLUSION:
acute sinusitis, especially of frontal sinus and in younger children, will better
be treated by antibiotics because of the danger of osteomyelitis and meningitis. 
Acupuncture should be tried in chronic and recurrent stages after exclusion of
large adenoids in children or bone inhibition of sinus clearance, especially
before an invasive operation like removal of sinus mucosa is carried out.

PMID: 7183207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1955. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 1982 Jan;7(1-2):27-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02798615.

A comparison of the formation of intermediary products during lactose hydrolysis 
with free and immobilized thermophilic lactase.

Rugh S.

Author information: 
Novo Research Institute, DK-2880, Bagsvaerd, Denmark.

CONCLUSION: Immobilization of the thermophilic lactase causes a decrease in the
formation of intermediary products. This means that partially hydrolyzed lactose 
syrups contain less of these intermediary products when the immobilized
thermophilic lactase is used in the hydrolysis process than when a soluble
lactase is used. In addition, the decrease in intermediary product formation
gives a higher enzyme efficiency in the process.

PMID: 24234080  [PubMed]


1956. Biorheology. 1982;19(3):409-24.

Mechanical properties of arteries.

Bauer RD, Busse R, Schabert A.

For the description of the mechanical properties of the arterial wall, a number
of different models and mathematical approaches of varying complexity have been
used. Most investigations based on the elastomeric approach have been related to 
the elastic properties of arteries, while relatively little is known about the
arterial wall viscosity (eta w) and its dependence on circumferential wall stress
(sigma t) and smooth muscle tone. For this reason we have examined these
relationships on segments of the abdominal aorta, the carotid artery, and the
tail artery of normotensive rats in vitro under the condition of strong smooth
muscle activation induced by norepinephrine (NE), and during smooth muscle
relaxation induced by papaverine (PAP).RESULTS: 1. For the abdominal aorta, the
quotient of the dynamic (Ed) and the quasistatic elastic modulus (ESt) increase
from 1.5 to 2.1 under NE, and from 1.2 to 1.5 under PAP, for the carotid artery
from 2.8 to 3.9 under NE, and from 1.3 to 1.4 under PAP, when sigma t increases
from 10 to 120 kPa. For the tail artery, this quotient is 8.6 under NE and 1.9
under PAP in the low sigma t-range (5 to 60 kPa) and 12.1 under NE and 1.5 under 
PAP in the sigma t-range between 60 and 120 kPa. 2. For all three types of
arteries, Ed and eta w increases with increasing sigma t. At a given sigma t, the
values of Ed are virtually independent of frequency, while the values of eta w
decrease markedly with increasing frequency. 3. The values of Ed and eta w,
obtained under NE and PAP, are virtually identical for a given sigma t-range.

PMID: 7104482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1957. Child Abuse Negl. 1982;6(4):423-31.

Developmental effects of child abuse: a review.

Toro PA.

Most research investigating the effects of physical child abuse on children's
development has been based on uncontrolled or poorly controlled studies having
small samples, no long-term follow-up, and weak instrumentation. These studies,
as well as some which have been more carefully designed, have generally suggested
seriously detrimental developmental consequences in physical, intellectual,
behavioral, and emotional areas. Some recent controlled follow-up studies
challenge such a negative picture of abuse. In particular, a study by Elmer,
which is probably the most carefully conducted study yet done, found that the
harmful effects of abuse dissipated years after the abusive incident and that
socioeconomic status (SES) and related factors may be more important than abuse
in determining the course of child development. To improve the quality and
clarity of future research on developmental effects of child abuse, this paper
discusses, in four major areas, problems which plague the research.DEFINITION:
The extent, type, and frequency of abuse should be more carefully defined to
allow studies to be compared. The types and amounts of social service
interventions should also be specified. Generalization: Research should include
more middle and upper SES children, more of the mildly and moderately abused, and
more neglected children to allow generalization to the total population of
maltreated children. Causality: Since developmental deficits may be the cause as 
well as the effects of abuse and because outside factors such as SES may lead to 
both the abuse and the deficits, there is a need for large-scale longitudinal
studies which can untangle the cause and effect web of abuse by following
children from birth and measuring many factors which might affect development
(e.g., SES, birth abnormalities, abuse).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6892329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1958. Digestion. 1982;25(3):155-63.

Cytoprotection of canine gastric mucosa by prostacyclin: possible mediation by
increased mucosal blood flow.

Konturek SJ, Robert A.

This study examined the role of the gastric mucosal blood flow (MBF) in the
gastric cytoprotection produced by prostacyclin (PGI2) and prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) in dogs. An acidified solution of saline was applied topically on the
canine gastric mucosa with and without ethanol at various concentrations. Ethanol
applied to the mucosa of a stomach flap preparation, in concentrations ranging
from 5 to 80%, gradually decreased the transmucosal potential difference (PD)
from -58 to -5 mV and increased net ionic fluxes. MBF gradually increased at
lower concentrations of ethanol, reaching the peak of about 50% above basal at
20% ethanol and then declining at 40 and 80% ethanol. PGI2 (10 micrograms/kg/h)
prevented the changes in PD and ion fluxes produced by lower but not higher
concentrations of ethanol and this was accompanied by a marked increase in the
MBF above the level produced by ethanol alone. The instillation of acidified 15% 
ethanol into Heidenhain pouch (HP) reduced the PD from -57 to -40 mV and elicited
large net H+ and Na+ fluxes. MBF was increased by 30%. PGI2 (10 micrograms/kg/h) 
completely prevented ethanol-induced changes in PD, reduced ionic fluxes, and
raised the MBF twofold. On the contrary PGE2 (80 micrograms/kg/h) did not affect 
ethanol-induced alterations in PD, ion fluxes, and MBF.CONCLUSIONS: PGI2, but not
PGE2, effectively protects the canine gastric mucosa against the damage produced 
by ethanol. This cytoprotection may be due to increased mucosal circulation,
which by an unknown mechanism interferes with the mucosal damage caused by
ethanol.

PMID: 6761220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1959. G Ital Cardiol. 1982;12(12):901-6.

[Comparison of dynamic electrography and stress test in the diagnosis of
ventricular arrhythmias in the early phase of myocardial infarction].

[Article in Italian]

Gori PP, Maras P, Pivotti F, Fonda F, Scardi S, Camerini F.

Ventricular premature beats are probably important in the prognostic evaluation
after acute myocardial infarction and may allow a better management of these
patients. The purpose of this study was to compare the sensitivity of two methods
exercise testing - ET - and ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring - AM -
detecting potentially dangerous ventricular arrhythmias and to evaluate their
prognostic value. Sixty-four patients have been studied (53 males and 11
females); their mean age was 61 years. They underwent ET and AM before discharge 
(mean 13.9 days) and were followed for a period of 12 months.CONCLUSIONS: -- ET
and AM are useful to detect ventricular arrhythmias; -- AM is the most sensitive 
method; -- there are no significant differences between the two methods in the
diagnosis of major arrhythmias; -- the combined use of the two methods has a
greater sensitivity; -- late mortality is not higher in the patients who have
suffered from major arrhythmias in the acute phase of the disease.

PMID: 6190696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1960. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jan;64(1):88-94.

Variations in the intrinsic mechanical properties of human articular cartilage
with age, degeneration, and water content.

Armstrong CG, Mow VC.

In a series of 103 specimens from the lateral facet of the human patella, the
intrinsic mechanical properties of articular cartilage were measured using a
confined compression creep test. By considering the cartilage as a porous,
permeable solid filed with fluid, this experimental procedure allowed the
determination of the intrinsic equilibrium modulus of the cartilage matrix and
its permeability to fluid flow. The intrinsic equilibrium modulus and the
permeability both were highly correlated with the water content of the tissue; as
water content increased, the matrix of the tissue became softer and more
permeable. There was only a marginal decrease in the equilibrium modulus of the
tissue with increasing age and surface degeneration. The permeability of the
cartilage matrix was not significantly correlated with age or
degeneration.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: We concluded that the visual or histological
appearance of a cartilage specimen may be a poor indicator of its ability to
function as the bearing material in the intact joint. A more reliable indicator
of the functional properties of a specimen can be obtained either by direct
mechanical testing or by biochemical analysis of its composition.

PMID: 7054208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1961. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jan;64(1):73-87.

Microvascular free bone transfer with revascularization of the medullary and
periosteal circulation or the periosteal circulation alone. A comparative
experimental study.

Berggren A, Weiland AJ, Ostrup LT, Dorfman H.

Two different types of vascularized rib grafts presently are used in clinical
practice and as experimental models for investigations on free microvascular bone
transfer: the posterior rib graft, including both medullary and periosteal blood 
supply to the bone; and the posterolateral segmental rib graft, supplied by
periosteal vessels alone, Complete survival of bone after successful
revascularization of the posterior type of graft is well established, but this
graft has the disadvantage of a complicated dorsal dissection which has limited
its clinical use. Instead, many microsurgeons have utilized the posterolateral
rib segment, which is easy and safe to excise although its viability and adequate
microcirculation have not yet been confirmed. In nine large dogs, we compared the
viability and vascularity of bone after transfer of the two types of bone grafts 
by histological methods, fluorochrome bone-labeling, microangiography, and
technetium scintigraphy. The grafts were transferred to the subcutaneous fat
tissue in the groin, where blood supply was reconstituted by microvascular
anastomoses to local donor vessels. The results suggest that a bone transplant
with revascularization of periosteal only established a collateral circulation to
medullary vessels, and that there is no difference in viability of the two kinds 
of grafts.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The technique of transferring whole bone segments
by microvascular anastomoses of their vascular pedicles has been employed
clinically either by preserving the periosteal blood supply alone or by
preserving the medullary and the periosteal blood supply. This study demonstrates
that the preservation of the periosteal blood supply alone can result in complete
bone-graft survival even when the graft is placed in a poorly vascularized tissue
bed.

PMID: 7054207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1962. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jan;64(1):14-7.

The effect on supination-pronation of angular malalignment of fractures of both
bones of the forearm.

Matthews LS, Kaufer H, Garver DF, Sonstegard DA.

Ten fresh human upper-extremity cadaver specimens were tested for the effect of
residual angulation from simulated fractures of both bones of the forearm on the 
potential for range of rotation of the forearm and for limitations of pronation
and supination specifically. Ten and 20-degree angulations for the radius and
ulna, such as might be encountered in all reasonable clinical situations, were
tested. Little significant loss of forearm rotation resulted from angulations of 
10 degrees in any direction. With 20 degrees of angulation, there was
statistically significant and functionally important loss of forearm
rotation.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A residual angulation of 10 degrees in mid-shaft
fractures of the radius, ulna, or both bones of the forearm will not limit
forearm rotation anatomically. Loss in the range of rotation can be expected with
residual angeles of 20 degrees or more.

PMID: 7054197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1963. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jan;64(1):129-35.

A comparative evaluation of tibial component designs of total knee prostheses.

Lewis JL, Askew MJ, Jaycox DP.

Three-dimensional finite-element stress analyses were used to compare the
fixation of tibial component configurations of surface-replacement-type total
knee prostheses, bases on the stresses in the cancellous bone, in the
polymethylmethacrylate, and at the bone cement-bone interface. The results
indicate that, in general, metal components provide lower system stresses than
polyethylene components, particularly in the methacrylate and the cancellous
bone, and that one-piece designs give lower bone cement-bone interface stresses
compared with those with separated condylar components. Of the designs
considered, a single-post, metal-backed design provided the lowest system
stresses over-all.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: a great and confusing variety of tibial
component design exists today, with more in the process of development. Short of 
long term clinical trials, there are few objective methods by which these designs
can be evaluated and long-term performance predicted. There is evidence from
clinical results that excessively high stresses in the systems can lead to
loosening of the tibial component. The finite-element method provides a method
for comparing prosthetic designs using system stresses a s a design criterion. On
this basis, we analyzed the stress distribution for several types of tibial
components and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of their designs.

PMID: 7054194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1964. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1982 Jan;64(1):32-8.

The measurement of proteoglycan in the mineralizing region of the rat growth
plate.

Mitchell N, Shepard N, Harrod J.

Using a recently developed technique for measuring proteoglycan by x-ray
microprobe analysis, we examined six-week-old rat growth plates. In the
proliferating zone, the proteoglycan concentration was found to be relatively low
in the transverse septa, but somewhat higher in the longitudinal septa between
the proliferating chondrocytes. In the lower hypertropic zone, in the region of
the degenerating hypertrophic chondrocytes, the immediate pericellular area had a
very high concentration of proteoglycan, as was obtained. These results indicate 
that either proteoglycan concentrations fall to very low levels in fully
mineralized cartilage, or that the mineralization of cartilage interferes in some
way with the measurement of microprobe signals from proteoglycans. We speculate
that high levels of proteoglycan are necessary for mineralization in the
epiphysis of the rat.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The spot-to-spot analysis of
proteoglycan by microprobe demonstrates the usefulness of this tool in analyzing 
minute volumes of cartilage for proteoglycan. It further demonstrates that
mineralization of growth-plate cartilage is associated with changing patterns of 
concentration of proteoglycan. These normal patterns may constitute a basis for
comparison in similarly evaluating concentrations of proteoglycan in diseases of 
growth disturbance.

PMID: 7033230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1965. Med Teach. 1982;4(2):70-1. doi: 10.3109/01421598209034753.

Bookshelf.

[No authors listed]

Multiple Choice Questions-MRCP Part 1 (2nd edn) B. I. Hoffbrand Medical Education
(International)/PasTest Service (1981) 150 + x pages. Price £6.50 Multiple Choice
Questions William F. Jackson Medical Education (International)/PasTest Service
(1981) 146 + xii pages. Price £6.50 Software for Education Computing K. Ahmed, D.
Ingram and C. J. Dickinson MTP Press, Lancaster (1981) 182 + ix pages. Price
£19.95 Faculty Development Through Workshops Carole J. Bland C. C. Thomas,
Illinois (1980) 218 pages Preparing, Designing, Leading Workshops (A Humanistic
Approach) Susan Cooper and Cathy Heenan CBL Publishing Co., Boston, Mass. (1980) 
128 pages.SALUS: Low-Cost Rural Health Care and Health Manpower Training Rosanna 
M. Bechtel (Ed.) International Development Research Centre 194 pages.

PMID: 24476209  [PubMed]


1966. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1982 Jan;34(1):101-8.

[A preliminary report of computerized ultrasonography in obstetrics and
gynecology: a new technique of C-mode (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka Y, Okamura S, Doi S, Ueki M, Sugimoto O, Okahashi S, Shirakawa S, Akagi H.

In order to obtain a three-dimensional ultrasonogram as a first step for a
general visualizing diagnosis, a new computerized ultrasonography was tried with 
patients from our obstetric and gynecological department, with the following
results: 1. Time required: Collection of data for the three-dimensional part
measuring 17 X 17 X 8.5cm took 17 seconds (Scanning time), and formation of the
32-image longitudinal sections and coronal sections (C-mode) took 46 seconds and 
1 minute 54 seconds, respectively. Formation of the 64-image longitudinal
sections and coronal sections (C-mode) took 1 minute 20 seconds and 3 minutes 20 
seconds, respectively. 2. Images: The recorded and reproduced images were
identical to the originals macroscopically and even as indicated on the line
printer. The coronal images (C-mode) and the longitudinal images could well stand
practical use. 3. Reproduction of images: All data were stored on magnetic tape
which could be processed as needed. 4.CLINICAL RESULTS: (a) In obstetric
patients, the images enabled us to confirm the location and expansion of the
placenta and fetus more clearly. (b) In gynecological patients, it proved to be
easy to get a whole view permitting better comprehension of the tumor shape, its 
internal components and its relation with the surrounding organs in a
three-dimensional way.

PMID: 7061890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1967. Phlebologie. 1982 Jan-Mar;35(1):349-59.

The sclerotherapy of telangiectasia.

[Article in English, French]

Ouvry PA, Davy A.

Indications. The sclerotherapy can be used in three sorts of telangiectasia: a)
Telangiectasia associated with venous stasis. The practitioner must keep to one
rule; sclerotherapy of varicose veins before sclerotherapy of telangiectasia. b) 
Single telangiectasia. c) Periodic telangiectasia. Technique. The material is: a)
sclerosants: chromicized glycerin at 1,11% (Scleremo), polydacanol
(Aetoxisclérol) at 0,50%; b) needles: 3/10, 4/10 or 5/10 mm in diameter; c)
syringes, 3 ml; d) lenses magnifying X 2. Two important rules: a) progress from
the largest to the smallest vessels; b) use little sclerosant at a time and many 
injections. Other recommendations: 3 or 4 weeks between consultations,
compression.RESULTS: telangiectasia usually disappear in a few days.
COMPLICATIONS: allergic reactions, cramps, scarring (excessive or extravascular
injections), permanent pigmentation (excessive dosage). In conclusion,
effectiveness of microsclerosis.

PMID: 7071184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1968. Phlebologie. 1982 Jan-Mar;35(1):223-9.

The possible use of amniotic membrane in chronic leg ulcers.

[Article in English, French]

Somerville PG.

A trial of living amniotic membrane is suggested as a suitable dressing for
certain indolent ulcers. The type of ulcer which is large and chronic both in
rate of healing as well as time since onset is well known to everyone. After
eliminating any venous defect, oedema, cellulitis, correction of stiff joints,
anaemia, we are left with a local indolent problem. What is the ideal dressing?
Comfortable or relieves pain; harmless to the tissues and encourages removal of
slough; encourages vascularity of the granulation tissue. Method of application: 
Amnion is applied for five days prior to skin grafting.RESULTS: Better results in
those ulcers which have a venous origin rather than arterial. In most cases a
clean delicate layer of granulation tissue forms. Histopathology: biopsy of the
ulcer base: before application of amnion - dense fibrous tissue, few thick-walled
vessels; after application of amnion - more delicate connective tissue, numerous 
vessels, with thinner walls. The formation of an amnion bank: To facilitate the
availability of living amnion. To investigate the possibility of an extract of
amnion which would produce the same results as the membrane itself.

PMID: 7071173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1969. Phlebologie. 1982 Jan-Mar;35(1):187-201.

The role of surgery in the treatment of acute phlebitis in the lower members.

[Article in English, French]

Natali J, Tricot JF.

Most phlebitis responds favorably to medical treatment. Iliofemoral and iliocaval
phlebitis, however, involve considerable risk as they may endanger life
(pulmonary embolism), limb (ischemic forms) or the functioning of the limb
(severe post-phlebitic syndromes). Because of this triple risk it is important to
be able to judge when to opt for surgery. Surgical treatment is called for in
cases of certain iliofemoral phlebitis developing in spite of medical treatment. 
Threat of "blue phlebitis" (acute arterial ischemia); threat of severe
post-phlebitis syndrome (the thrombosed iliac veins do not easily recover their
permeability); threat to life (iliac thromboses producing mortal embolism). These
three risks justify emergency phlebography. The aims, means and limitations of
surgery. 1. Aim - to maintain the permeability of the femoro-ilio-caval venous
axis and to avoid pulmonary embolism. 2. Methods - Thrombectomy is done at the
level of the femoral vein using Fogarty's catheter and Esmarch's bandage; this is
carried out at an early stage (5 first days). A De W. clamp may be positioned at 
the level of the vena cava (in case of preexisting pulmonary embolism or
incomplete thrombectomy). 3.INDICATIONS: --Phlebitis with ischemia. --Recent
severe phlebitis not responding enough to urgent medical treatment particularly
in the cases of young patients. --Clamp used in cases of pulmonary embolism or
when threats of embolism are visible on the phlebography (floating clots). 4.
MATERIALS: --82 patients were operated between 1970-1978. Phlebography showed: 44
iliofemoral phlebites, 11 femoropopliteal phlebites, 27 iliocaval phlebites.
--Arterial affection revealed in the cases of 8 patients, four of which had blue 
phlebitis. --Pulmonary embolism was the symptom showing iliofemoral phlebitis in 
7 cases. 5.
OPERATIONS: 42 isolated clamps; 40 thrombectomies (in 15 cases completed by a
clamp, in 12 cases by arteriovenous fistula; in 10 cases by treatment of an
anomaly of the origin of the left common iliac vein. 6.
RESULTS: --Two deaths. --In the long term (average interval = 4 years) the
results were excellent in 54% of the cases (no oedema), good in 28% (light
compression required), and bad in 8%. Conclusion. Certain iliac phlebites can, we
believe, be cured by surgery.

PMID: 7071170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1970. Res Exp Med (Berl). 1982;181(2):135-45.

Exercise in rats with liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride or bile duct
obstruction. Blood cholic acid and liver histology.

Simko V, Kelley RE, Dincsoy HP, Gimmon Z, Willmann K.

Tolerance of exercise in rats with liver injury was evaluated by the response of 
plasma cholylglycine (CG) and by liver histology in two experiments with CCl4
hepatocellular damage and in two other experiments with cholestatic liver injury 
induced by obstruction of the common bile duct. (1) Rats swimming daily for 1 h
while exposed to five successive doses of CCl4 and studied at rest, had a trend
(P less than 0.06) to higher CG and a higher plasma SGPT (P less than 0.05) than 
sedentary CCl4 rats. (2) In rats recovering from four successive doses of CCl4
there were no differences between CG curves before, during, and after exercise,
except at 48 h of recovery when exercise elevated CG (P less than 0.05). (3)
Sixteen days after ligation of the bile duct CG was high but not affected by
exercise, 45 days after ligation exercise resulted in further increase of CG (P
less than 0.05). (4) When ligation of the bile duct lasted only 24 h, exercise
prior to release of the obstruction did not affect CG. Exercise 8 h and 27 h
after release of ligation resulted in an increase in CG (P less than 0.05).
Return to pre-exercise CG occurred 30 min after exercise.CONCLUSION: CG was a
useful indicator of liver injury showing a positive correlation with the CCl4
dose and a negative correlation with recovery from CCl4. Exercise had only mildly
adverse effect in hepatotoxic and cholestatic liver injury. CG appeared to
respond more sensitively to exercise after release of bile duct obstruction than 
in CCl4 hepatocellular injury.

PMID: 7178663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1971. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1982;72:153-8.

Effects of oral pirenzepine on gastric emptying and antral motor activity in
healthy man.

Stacher G, Havlik E, Bergmann H, Schmierer G, Winklehner S.

Pirenzepine (PIR), in contrast to classical antimuscarinic drugs, shows
heterogeneity of binding that corresponds with the pharmacological activity:
gastric secretion is inhibited by low doses, whereas higher doses are needed to
inhibit gastrointestinal motility. This study investigated the effects of oral
PIR on gastric emptying and antral motor activity. 20 healthy men (mean age 24.9 
yr) participated in two experimental sessions, one week apart. According to a
cross-over double blind design they received, three and a half days prior to the 
studies, either 50 mg PIR twice daily or placebo (PLA). A semisolid test meal
labelled with 150 MBq 99mTc hSA was administered. A gamma camera coupled to a
computer monitored modulation depth (MD), frequency (FR), and propagation
velocity (PV) of antral contractions together with gastric emptying rate (GE)
according to a modification of Akkerman's technique. PIR decreased MD (PLA: 21.2 
+/- 1.7 SEM%; PIR: 17.2 +/- 1.5%; P less than 0.005) and increased FR (PLA: 3.12 
+/- 0.05 cycles/min; PIR: 3.29 +/- 0.07 c/min; P less than 0.005) significantly
whereas PV was accelerated (PLA: 2.9 +/- 0.2 mm/sec; PIR: 3.1 +/- 0.3 mm/sec;
n.s.) and GE delayed only slightly (PLA: 50.4 +/- 8.5 kcpm; PIR: 35.5 +/- 6.0
kcpm; n.s.). PIR produced more frequent stools in three and accommodation
difficulties and a dry mouth in each two subjects. PLA caused no side
effects.CONCLUSION: PIR delays GE insignificantly despite of considerable effects
on antral motility.

PMID: 6957982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1972. Urol Int. 1982;37(1):34-41.

Incompetent urethral closure mechanism in females. Experimental and clinical
studies with special reference to diagnosis and classification.

Fossberg E, Beisland HO.

A urethral/bladder model was placed in a reservoir simulating the abdominal
cavity. Increased "intraabdominal' pressure was transmitted to the urethra-like
part of the model only when this was situated inside the "abdominal cavity'. The 
use of H2O and CO2 as filling medium was indifferent as only the relation between
rise in urethral pressure and in bladder pressure is of practical importance.
However, the increase in transmitted pressure was 25% lower than CO2 was used.
Incompetent urethral closure mechanism is found in three categories of female
patients: (1) patients with sensory urge who have an unstable urethra, (2)
patients with genuine stress incontinence, and (3) patients who have a
sphincteric insufficiency due to a low maximal urethral closure pressure and
atrophy of the urethral mucosa. These categories can be separated urodynamically 
using simultaneous urethracystometry combined with transmission studies. Out of
20 patients with sensory urge 16 were found to have an unstable urethra.
Transmission studies in 51 women with symptoms of stress incontinence revealed
positive transmission, i.e. the increase in urethral pressure exceeded the rise
in bladder pressure, in 23 patients. They were all elderly women and had a low
maximal urethral closure pressure and their leakage of urine was due to an
endourethral weakness. The remaining 28 patients had negative transmission and
thus genuine stress incontinence.IN CONCLUSION: To classify the three different
types of incompetent urethral closure mechanism it is necessary to perform a
simultaneous urethracystometry, in which transmission studies are mandatory, as
this is the most appropriate way to distinguish between patients who will benefit
from operation and patients who will not.

PMID: 7202272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1973. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1982;159(1):74-81.

[A contribution to the standardization of the diagnosis and therapy of
sarcoidosis I and II].

[Article in German]

Franke M.

485 cases of sarcoidosis of a hospital for lung diseases within the time from
1960 to 1971 were retrospectively studied by examining, if diagnostics and
therapy till now practised are sufficient. In most cases diagnosis was due to
clinical signs only in cases of doubt biopsy was used. The standard treatment
with 750 mg Prednisolon was carried one. The course of disease and the results of
therapy were chequed by documents and radiography. By a consultation of the Chest
Clinics charged with the care after therapy the results were completed showing
that the degree of right diagnosis and therapeutic effects were positive.RESULTS:
diagnostics suffice (histological diagnosis: only 13.9% of the cases), 6 wrong
diagnoses (1.31%), but not fatal. 27.56% recidivs, which equal those of higher
and longer methods of therapy, therefore, the paper is a contribution to the
rationalization of the therapy.

PMID: 7148035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1974. Z Rechtsmed. 1982;88(3):213-9.

[The "Baxström Affair". An example of criticism on psychiatry in the USA
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Möllhoff G.

Until the year 1966 the prison administration of New York, supported by relevant 
laws, transferred prisoners who showed symptoms of psychic disorder during
execution of a sentence to the Dannemora Clinic which belonged to the prison. The
treatment was carried out by house physicians (general practitioners) who were
subject to special directions. J. K. Baxström initiated a lawsuit against this
procedure and was finally proven right by the Supreme Court of the USA; the
necessity of a thorough medical examination of facts, a hearing in front of a
judge, and the approval of the transfer were confirmed to apply also to mentally 
ill prisoners. The sociologists Streatman and Cocozza carried out an
investigation of 967 ex-convicts of the Dannemora Clinic (1966-1974).RESULT:
Psychiatrists had shown an arbitrary and comtemptuous behavior in these cases.
Diagnostic, therapy, and prognosis had been insufficient or mistaken in this
marginal group. Further examination showed, however, that no psychiatrist had
been involved in the transfer to the Dannemora Clinic either in planning,
consultation, or execution of the transfer. Is so far the reproaches lack any
factual grounds. The "Baxström affair", which is frequently taken up by the
media, turned out to be an example of ideologically determined "criticism on
psychiatry" with doubtful methods.

PMID: 7102115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1975. Int J Androl. 1981 Dec;4(6):609-22.

Factors affecting the variability of semen analysis results in infertile men.

Baker HW, Burger HG, de Kretser DM, Lording DW, McGowan P, Rennie GC.

Infertile men who had 3 or more semen analyses performed in one laboratory were
placed in 2 groups (I) oligozoospermic group (n = 106), mean sperm concentration 
between 1 and 20 million/ml (II) asthenozoospermic group (n = 71), mean sperm
concentration greater than 20 million/ml, and mean motility less than 60%. With
increasing durations of abstinence from ejaculation before the tests there were
significant increases in semen volume and sperm concentration. Semen volume
increased over the first 4 days to a similar extent in both groups. Sperm
concentrations increased over 15 days, but the effect of abstinence was much
greater in the asthenozoospermic group than in the oligozoospermic group (14%
compared with 1.4% of the within subject variation). Significant changes in
results accompanied repeated testing, notably rises in sperm concentration and
motility. Sperm motility was lower in winter and higher in summer in both groups 
and also, but to a lesser extent, in artificial insemination donors who collected
semen in the laboratory.CONCLUSIONS: duration of abstinence, the elapse of time
and seasonal temperature changes affect semen analysis results, and therefore
controls for these variables must be incorporated in any therapeutic trial for
male infertility. On the other hand, they only account for a small proportion of 
the total variability and thus routine correction of results would not greatly
improve the value of semen analysis in the prediction of fertility. Furthermore
because differences in the duration of abstinence have only a small effect on
sperm concentration in oligozoospermic men, restricting sexual intercourse to the
time of ovulation may not enhance fertility.

PMID: 7319648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1976. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Dec;63(9):1443-8.

Retrieval and analysis of intramedullary rods.

Weinstein AM, Clemow AJ, Starkebaum W, Milicic M, Klawitter JJ, Skinner HB.

We examined ten intramedullary rods of similar design after routine retrieval
from patients. Of these ten rods, four were found to exhibit cracking around
their proximal third. This behavior could not be attributed to the surgical
techniques employed or to the length of time in vivo of these rods. Rather, the
cracking was a function of both the metal alloy used and the method of
manufacture, which occasionally allowed a weld zone to be located at the point of
maximum stress with the result that cracking occurred. A change in alloy
composition to a low-carbon form of 316 stainless steel probably would reduce the
risk of cracking.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In the treatment of orthopaedic disorders,
it is important for the operating physician to appreciate the problems that may
be encountered in using implants. One of the most important of these problems is 
the possibility of implant failure. The present report illustrates how a
combination of both metallurgical and fabrication factors may cause such an event
to occur.

PMID: 7320035  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1977. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1981 Dec;29(10):609-12.

[Results of leukocyte migration inhibition test against elastin in joint diseases
(author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Loeper J, Peroux JL, Loeper J, Jeny C, Rozenstajn L, Davril M, Han KK.

The purpose of this work was to report the results of the test TML inhibition of 
leukocytes' migration, using elastin, by Soborg and Bendixen method, modified
with elastin rates of 100 micrograms and 200 micrograms/ml, in joints disease. We
verified that the test is generally negative in healthy controls (1 TML positive 
out of 26 cases); we studied 72 patients, and 38 out of them had a positive test.
TML is frequently positive in Horton disease, spondylarthritis, rheumatoid
polyarthritis without corticoids, collagen disease; in this cases there is a
significant difference of migration between patients and controls group. We also 
noted a positive TML in infections arthritis and other inflammatory but not in
joint's diseases with alteration of elastic tissue (scabs and lung's injury).IN
CONCLUSION: TML positive test with elastin, is not a specific test of articular
injury neither a proof of its immunologic nature but it contributes in diagnostic
for joints diseases.

PMID: 7041057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1978. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1981 Nov 21;111(47):1795-8.

[Acute heart insufficiency of primarily non-cardiac origin after polytrauma].

[Article in German]

Wolff G, Langenstein H.

The following approach is proposed for treatment of the hemodynamics resulting
from severe trauma. Blood pressure and pulse frequency are measured whilst volume
is added until peripheral circulation returns to normal or until CVP attains 13
mm Hg (under CPPV, PEEP 10 cm H2O). When CVP attains 13 mm Hg a
pulmonary-arterial thermodilution catheter is introduced and transfusion
continued, possibly up to a PCWP of 17 mm Hg. At this stage, 4 different
haemodynamic groups may be distinguished and are described on the basis of the
mean values recorded for 3 patients in each group: 1. SVRI increased, LVSWI and
PVRI normal.THERAPY: continued slow addition of volume. 2. SVRI and PVRI slightly
elevated. LVSWI diminished. CI and VO2 adequate.
THERAPY: phentolamine. 3. PVRI slightly elevated, CI and VO2 too low, i.e. left
cardiac insufficiency.
THERAPY: isuprel. 4. PVRI markedly elevated, CI and VO2 clearly diminished, i.e. 
biventricular cardiac insufficiency with pulmonary-vascular hypertension.
THERAPY: isuprel and phentolamine. Pharmacological therapy can be discontinued
after a few days and hemodynamics remain normal. These observations show that
"acute cardiac failure in fundamentally normal hearts" can occur after severe
trauma and that treatment is possible.

PMID: 7313649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1979. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1981 Nov;33(11):1951-60.

[A study on luteal function during consecutive cycles (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishimaru T, Morisaki M, Kohno A, Okamoto S, Nakano T, Imamura S, Oh S, Nakajima
H, Yamabe T.

It is conceivable that luteal function is varied with different menstrual cycles.
A study was therefore undertaken to investigate for changes in luteal function
during consecutive menstrual cycles.METHODS: From those women receiving
ambulatory treatment at the hospital 30 displaying a biphasic basal body
temperature (BBT) curve were chosen for the study. BBT records were obtained from
each of these women for at least 3 consecutive cycles and a total of 194 cycles
thus rendered available were evaluated for the pattern of BBT, the duration of
high phase (DHP), high phase score (HPS) and planimetric luteal index (PLI).
Twenty of these 30 women were subjected further to endometrial dating at the
7th-8th day of high phase with simultaneous determinations of serum estradiol
(E2), progesterone (P) and prolactin (PRL) during 2 consecutive cycles.
RESULTS: The incidences of abnormal values of the parameters for at least one of 
the consecutive cycles studied were: DHP; 13.3% pattern; 50-100%, HPS; 40.0%,
PLI; 13.3%, E2; 25%, P; 25%, PRL; 30%, endometrial dating; 65%. These results
indicate a considerable variability of luteal function.

PMID: 7320595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1980. Urologe A. 1981 Nov;20(6):370-4.

[Vesico-ureteral reflux (VUR) and renal size in children (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Satoh Y, Nagata H, Ikoma F, Kuroda J, Tokizane M.

We analyzed the radiographic renal size of 180 children with vesico-ureteral
reflux as compared with that of 159 normal children. We measured on urogram the
vertebral length, renal length and thickness of the renal cortex. Further, the
ratio of the renal length to the vertebral length and the cortical thickness to
the renal length were computed. The latter was named the cortical ratio.IN
CONCLUSION: 1. The cortical ratio is the most useful parameter in analysis of the
renal size. 2. Cortical damage due to VUR is noted already in newborns. This
result suggests that vesico-ureteral reflux must be detected and treated in early
childhood.

PMID: 7198320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1981. Boll Soc Ital Biol Sper. 1981 Oct 15;57(19):1998-2003.

[Activity of renal enzymes producing ammonia from glutamine in the absence of
phosphate: 2. Effect of phosphate dependent glutaminase inhibition by heating].

[Article in Italian]

Robaudo C, Garibotto G, Ghiggeri GM, Bruzzone M, Deferrari G.

It is known that heating at 50 degrees C for 10 minutes inhibits phosphate
dependent glutaminase (PDG) activity of renal cortex, without any effect on
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma GT) and its phosphate independent
glutaminase (PIG) activity. The effect of heating on PIG and total gamma GT
activities was evaluated in renal cortex homogenates of rats both in normal
acid-base equilibrium and in chronic metabolic acidosis (CMA). Homogenates were
incubated in a medium containing glutamine 2 mM, no phosphate, at pH 7,40. PIG
activity was measured as glutamate production and total gamma GT activity as
ammonia production. In normal rats PIG activity was unchanged after heating,
whereas a significant decrease of total gamma GT activity was observed (p less
than 0,01). CMA caused an increase in both PIG and total gamma GT activity (p
less than 0,01) and these increased to a further extent after heating. In both
normal and acidotic rats the glutamate production/ammonia production ratio rose
to about 1.IN CONCLUSION: a) in the experimental setting used for this study PDG 
activity does not intervene in glutamate and ammonia production from glutamine;
b) heating causes an inhibition of gamma GT activities, other than PIG, both in
normal and in acidotic rats; c) in CMA heating increases PIG activity of gamma
GT.

PMID: 6119102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1982. An Esp Pediatr. 1981 Oct;15(4):357-64.

[Maintenance chemotherapy and inmunotherapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia
(author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega JJ, Javier G.

Sixty-one children with ALL were treated between 1970 an 1973 according to a
scheme including: a) Remission induction with
vincristine-prednisolone-daunorubicine. b) Cytoreduction therapy with 4 drugs
(6-MP, MTX,Ara-C and CYCLO) combined two by two in 3 types of associations given 
at three months cycles. Every three months, two-week "reinductions" with
vincristine and prednisolone plus one dose of i.t. MTX. c) Early therapy on CNS, 
according to two patterns: one group received one dose of i.t. MTX after
induction, repeated every 3 months; the other group was given cranial irradiation
[2,400 r] plus 5 doses of i.t. MTX. d) After three years of chemotherapy,
patients were treated for two more years with BCG by scarification.RESULTS:
Complete remission was achieved in 93%. After three years of chemotherapy, 37% of
the first group (not irradiated) and 55% of the second (irradiated) persisted in 
C.R. Twenty-five patients initiated BCG-therapy; eighteen of these (72%)
persisted, after 2 years, in C.R.; then all treatment was suppressed. Initial
relapses in the 5 years period were hematological in 13, CNS in 13, both
hematological and CNS in 2, and testicular in 3. Mortality of patients in C.R.
was 4 (7.7%). Survival rates were 33% after 5 years for the non-irradiated group 
and 50% in the irradiated one. At present, 30% of all evaluable patients who
attained remission continue in C.R. after an average time of 102 months-40% in
the irradiated group and 20% in the not irradiated-. This difference,
statistically significant, is due to the number of CNS relapses: 13 of 30 (43%)
in the first group and 3 of 22 (13.1%) in the second. The 24% relapses occurring 
during immunotherapy do not permit to assess the efficacy of this form of
therapy.

PMID: 6950685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1983. Anaesthesist. 1981 Oct;30(10):521-2.

[Treatment of pain by means of epidural morphine injections (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kühn K, Hausdörfer J, Rothe KF.

CASE REPORT: male patient, 14 years old, with severe pain was treated with high
doses of morphine via epidural-catheterization of long duration. To keep a
constant morphine-level the daily dose was given by means of a perfusor. This
method did not show any side effects.

PMID: 7304906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1984. Endokrinologie. 1981 Oct;78(1):57-66.

Oral thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) test in acromegaly.

Marek J, Límanová Z, Srámková J.

The effects of 40 mg oral and 200 microgram intravenous TRH were studied in
patients with active acromegaly. Administration of oral TRH to each of 14
acromegalics resulted in more pronounced TSH response in all patients and more
pronounced response of triiodothyronine in most of them (delta max TSh after oral
TRh 36.4 +/- 10.0 (SEM) mU/l vs. delta max TSH after i.v. TRH 7.7 +/- 1.5 mU/l, P
less than 0.05; delta max T3 after oral TRH 0.88 +/- 0.24 nmol/vs. delta max T3
after i.v. TRH 0.23 +/- 0.06 nmol/l, P less than 0.05). Oral TRH elicited
unimpaired TSH response even in those acromegalics where the TSH response to i.v.
TRH was absent or blunted. In contrast to TSH stimulation, oral TRH did not
elicit positive paradoxical growth hormone response in any of 8 patients with
absent stimulation after i.v. TRH. In 7 growth hormone responders to TRH
stimulation the oral TRH-induced growth hormone response was insignificantly
lower than that after i.v. TRH (delta max GH after oral TRH 65.4 +/- 28.1
microgram/l vs. delta max GH after i.v. TRH 87.7 +/- 25.6 microgram/l, P greater 
than 0.05). In 7 acromegalics 200 microgram i.v. TRH represented a stronger
stimulus for prolactin release than 40 mg oral TRH (delta max PRL after i.v. TRH 
19.6 +/- 3.22 microgram/, delta max PRL after oral TRH 11.1 +/- 2.02 microgram/, 
P less than 0.05).CONCLUSION: In acromegalics 40 mg oral TRH stimulation is
useful in the evaluation of the function of pituitary thyrotrophs because it
shows more pronounced effect than 200 microgram TRH intravenously. No advantage
of oral TRH stimulation was seen in the assessment of prolactin stimulation and
paradoxical growth hormone responses.

PMID: 6797816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1985. Orthopedics. 1981 Oct 1;4(10):1150-69. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19811001-08.

Arthrography.

Cooper RA.

KNEE ARTHROGRAPHY MENISCAL AND EXTRAMENISCAL LESIONSABSTRACT: A review of knee
arthrography is presented. Purpose and technique are discussed and examples of
meniscal and extrameniscal lesions are illustrated. Thirty-seven figures and an
extensive bibliography are included.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 24822816  [PubMed]


1986. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1981 Sep;98(1):87-94.

Mineralocorticoid and metabolic response to metyrapone on normotensive children
and children with dexamethasone-suppressible and primary hyperaldosteronism.

Sonino N, Levine LS, New MI.

The effect of 5 to 9 days of metyrapone administration (400 mg/m2 every 4 h) on
aldosterone, deoxycorticosterone, plasma renin activity, electrolyte balance, and
blood pressure was investigated in 2 normotensive siblings (one of whom showed
limited ACTH reserve), in 3 patients with hypertension and
dexamethasone-suppressible hyperaldosteronism, and in a hypertensive patient with
primary hyperaldosteronism due to bilateral adrenal hyperplasia.RESULTS: 1.
Plasma and urinary aldosterone levels were steadily suppressed by metyrapone in
all cases, except in the oldest patient studied who had
dexamethasone-suppressible hyperaldosteronism and in whom, after a few days,
aldosterone gradually rose to normal levels. 2. Mild mineralocorticoid effect
occurred only in the normal subject. In all other patients there was no apparent 
mineralocorticoid effect despite deoxycorticosterone hypersecretion. 3. There was
no significant change in blood pressure with metyrapone administration in any
patient.

PMID: 7025545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1987. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1981 Sep;137(3):477-81.

Bronchospasm during excretory urography: lack of specificity for the
methylglucamine cation.

Littner MR, Ulreich S, Putman CE, Rosenfield AT, Meadows G.

Pulmonary function (specifically, forced expiratory volume in 1 sec and forced
expiratory flow at low lung volumes) was measured with maximal expiratory
flow-volume curves during excretory urography in 70 patients and during sham
procedures in 27 subjects. Forty-one patients received a 100 ml intravenous bolus
of 60% methylglucamine diatrizoate and 29 patients received 100 ml of 50% sodium 
diatrizoate. Within 20 min, greater than 95% of patients had bronchospasm as
indicated by asymptomatic decreases in pulmonary function. These decreases were
significantly (p less than 0.001) greater than in the subjects undergoing sham
procedures. Greater than 50% of patients had a maximum decrease in pulmonary
function that exceeded the range of variability for consecutive repetitions of
maximal expiratory flow-volume curves. These patients were classified as
responders during excretory urography. The prevalence of responders was similar
in methylglucamine diatrizoate and sodium diatrizoate patients. The magnitude of 
maximum decreases in pulmonary function did not differ significantly between
methylglucamine diatrizoate and sodium diatrizoate responders.CONCLUSIONS: Sodium
diatrizoate does not offer an advantage over methylglucamine diatrizoate with
respect to asymptomatic bronchospasm during excretory urography.

PMID: 6974458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1988. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Sep;63(7):1109-13.

A histochemical study of slipped capital femoral epiphysis.

Ippolito E, Mickelson MR, Ponseti IV.

Core biopsies of the proximal femoral growth plate from three patients with
slipped capital femoral epiphysis were compared with three normal growth plates
from patients of similar ages. The growth plates of patients with slipped capital
femoral epiphysis had a normal resting zone, a loose and fibrillated
proliferative zone, and a very disarranged and thickened hypertrophic zone. The
proliferative zone stained strongly with alcian blue, suggesting the presence of 
abundant proteoglycans in the cartilage matrix. The thickened hypertrophic zone
was strongly positive to periodic acid-Schiff stain, indicating the presence of
abundant structural glycoproteins. Enchondral ossification was scanty and
irregular, and there were large clusters of cartilage in the metaphysis. Slippage
occurred through the thickened proliferative and hypertrophic zones.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: The proximal femoral growth plate in slipped capital femoral epiphysis
is histochemically abnormal and histologically disarranged. These features
contribute to abnormal widening of the growth plate and to further slippage.

PMID: 7276046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1989. J Cardiogr. 1981 Sep;11(3):979-88.

[Echocardiographic and non-gated computed tomographic findings of
intrapericardial tumor and mediastinal tumor adjacent to the heart (author's
transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueda M, Yamada N, Saito D, Haraoka S, Tanetani S, Nishiyama O, Sakai Y,
Sakakibara H.

Echocardiographic and computed tomographic findings of a case of intrapericardial
tumor are reported, and two other cases of mediastinal tumor are presented in a
discussion of the differential diagnosis of intrapericardial from mediastinal
tumors.CASE REPORT: A 7-year-old male complained of cough and dyspnea.
Cardiomegaly had been pointed out at a mass X-ray examination about a month prior
to the admission. Two-dimensional echocardiography revealed a massive anterior
pericardial effusion and a fist-sized tumor with cystic structure. The tumor
pushed the heart backward at the level of the aortic root. Non-gated computed
tomography of the chest disclosed the size and location of the tumor, but failed 
to clarify the internal structure. The patient underwent successful removal of a 
tumor, 12 x 10 x 8 cm in size and 350 g in weight, originating from the left
atrial wall. Histologically, the tumor was a fibrosarcomatous mesothelioma.
Usually, an intrapericardial tumor is easily suspected by echocardiography by the
presence of pericardial effusion, although there have been a few reports of
intrapericardial tumors without pericardial effusion. Echocardiographic diagnosis
of the intrapericardial tumor is difficult in such cases. Identification of the
pericardium is necessary to diagnose whether a tumor is intra- or
extrapericardial. This identification, however, is not always easy by
echocardiography when the ultrasonic beams become tangent to the pericardium. The
pericardium between the tumor and the heart could not be identified by
echocardiography in our two cases of mediastinal tumor. Computed tomography is
helpful in diagnosing the size and location of a mediastinal tumor.

PMID: 7320570  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1990. Jpn J Antibiot. 1981 Sep;34(9):1307-12.

[Clinical findings of cefoxitin in the treatment of serious infections and the
prevention of postoperative infections (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ito H, Uno E, Ikeda M, Shimoji T, Higashi S, Yamamoto S.

This clinical trial was designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety and patient
tolerance of cefoxitin in 23 patients who were admitted to the hospital from
March 1980 to November 1980. The daily dose of cefoxitin for 21 adult patients
(ages ranged from 26 to 74 years old) were 6 g for the treatment of infections,
and 2 to 6 g for the prevention of infections by either direct or intermittent
intravenous infusions. Two children were given 100 mg/kg of cefoxitin either by
direct or intermittent intravenous infusions 2 to 3 times a day in divided
doses.SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: I. Treatment of intracranial infections 1. A
60-year-old man with a brain abscess was admitted to the hospital after the
unsuccessful treatment with a cephalothin for 9 days. After, the initiation of
therapy with cefoxitin, given 6 g a day for 3 days, the abscess was surgically
removed. On the second day of treatment with cefoxitin following the operation,
his highest temperature was 37.0 degrees C and was normal on the third day of
treatment. He was discharged after 12 days after the surgical procedure. 2. A
56-year-old woman with cerebrospinal rhinorrhea and meningitis after the
transsphenoidal removal of pituitary microadenoma responded satisfactorily to
therapy with cefoxitin, given 6 g a day for 14 days after the unsuccessful
treatment with a cephalothin. II. The prevention of infections following surgical
operation of the central nervous system 1. Seventeen patients undergoing surgical
procedures were treated with cefoxitin for the prevention of postoperative
infections. None of the 17 patients developed postoperative infections. 2. A
53-year-old man undergoing repair of cerebrospinal rhinorrhea in the possibly
contaminated area was successfully treated with cefoxitin, given intravenous 2 g 
every 8 hours for 10 days without meningitis having developed. III. The treatment
and prevention of complications 1. A 74-year-old comatose male with a brain stem 
concussion, who was expectorating insufficiently and had difficulty swallowing
and developed into pneumonia as a complication. He was successfully treated with 
cefoxitin, given intravenous 6 g a day for 2 weeks. 2. A 26-year-old male with a 
brain stem concussion complicated by pneumonia and a urinary tract infection was 
successfully treated with the same dose regimen of cefoxitin as the previous
patient. 3. The prevention of complications A 58-year-old male with pontine
glioma undergoing a tracheotomy was administered cefoxitin for the prevention of 
pulmonary complication. He died of pontine glioma after the three-month
treatment. IV. Side effects Results of skin sensitivity tests given prior to the 
administration of cefoxitin were negative in all of the 23 patients. Neither
anaphylaxis nor other allergic reactions or thrombophlebitis occurred with the
intravenous administration of cefoxitin. No abnormalities in blood, hepatic
function or renal function were observed. Anorexia occurred in 1 patient who was 
given cefoxitin, 6 g a day.

PMID: 7328753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1991. No Shinkei Geka. 1981 Sep;9(10):1193-7.

[A case of hematoma localized to midbrain tegmentum following closed head injury 
(author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Saeki N, Otaki M, Oka N, Takase M.

CASEs of primary brain stem lesion following closed head injury, verified on CT
scan, have been increasingly reported recently. However, most of them have
supratentorial lesions in addition to brain stem, resulting in a poor outcome. In
this paper, a case of localized brain stem hematoma following closed head injury,
is reported based on CT findings.CASE: A 26-year-old man slipped down on his back
and hit the right occipital area with following loss of consciousness for several
minutes. Since then, he continued to have gait disturbance and visited our
hospital on the next day. On admission, he presented truncal ataxia, left
trochlear nerve palsy, right Horner's syndrome and left hemihypesthesia. CT scan 
revealed a small hematoma localized to the right midbrain tegmentum at the level 
of inferior colliculus, well correlating with his clinical presentation. He
gradually improved on conservative treatment and returned to his former work one 
month after the accident. This case suggests that there may be cases of primary
brain stem injury with no other intracranial lesion based on CT findings and with
a good prognosis. Shear strain is said to be a probable mechanism for explaining 
brain stem injury, which is usually combined with other parenchymal lesions. In
our case, however, more focal factor--nervous and/or vascular compression against
the tentorial edge--is suspected for producing this localized midbrain lesion.

PMID: 7290323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1992. No Shinkei Geka. 1981 Sep;9(10):1153-8.

[Middle fossa neurinoma with proptosis and oculomotor palsy (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Sako K, Abe H, Kaneko S, Tsuru M, Nakano H.

Proptosis and oculomotor palsy which occur with intracranial neurinoma are very
rare.CASE: A 29-year-old right-handed female was admitted to the Department of
Neurosurgery, Hokkaido University School of Medicine on Sept. 6, 1975. Eight
months before admission, the patient complained of double vision and one month
later, noticed decreasing of right visual acuity. Four months before admission,
right-sided ptosis occurred and she noticed right temporal visual field's defect.
Two weeks before admission she became aware of proptosis of right side. On
admission, the general examination and vital signs were normal. The neurological 
examination revealed right optic nerve atrophy, right oculomotor palsy and slight
decreasing of right corneal reflex. Radiological examination revealed
extracerebral mass lesion in the middle fossa. On Sept. 19, 1975, a right
frontotemporal craniotomy was performed and a large dura-covered tumor was found.
It was found to extend from the middle fossa to the superior orbital fissure and 
attached to the anterior wall of the middle fossa. The tumor expanded into the
interdual space and tightly attached to the dura mater. Histological examination 
of the tumor revealed typical neurinoma. Reports on cases with middle fossa
neurinoma were reviewed and the origin of the tumor was discussed. It was
presumed that the origin of the tumor in this case was the dural branch of the
trigeminal nerve in the middle fossa.

PMID: 7290317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1993. Chirurg. 1981 Aug;52(8):535-7.

[Küntscher's intramedullary nailing. An alternative method in the treatment of
femoral fractures close to the knee joint in the aged].

[Article in German]

Zimmermann HG.

Femur fractures near the knee joint provide serious problems where therapy is
concerned. In elderly patients, especially those who also have other illnesses,
who must be mobilized very early, the use of an exceptionally long nail as
described by Küntscher offers an alternative method to the AO
angleplate.ADVANTAGES: Short time of operation, early mobilization, sufficient
mobility after removal of the nail.

PMID: 7273932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1994. J Clin Invest. 1981 Aug;68(2):399-404.

Comparison of carbohydrate-containing and carbohydrate-restricted hypocaloric
diets in the treatment of obesity. Endurance and metabolic fuel homeostasis
during strenuous exercise.

Bogardus C, LaGrange BM, Horton ES, Sims EA.

Eight untrained, obese females (greater than 30% body fat), ages 25-33 yr, were
studied before, at 1 wk, and after 6 wk while taking either of two 830-kcal/d
diets: carbohydrate-containing (CC) group (n = 4): 35% protein, 29% fat, 36%
carbohydrate-restricted (CR) group (n = 4): 35% protein, 64% fat, 1%
carbohydrate. Endurance, at approximately 75% of VO2max (maximum oxygen uptake)
on a cycle decreased from base line by 50% at 1 and 6 wk in the CR group, but
there was no change in the CC group. Preexercise muscle glycogen (vastus
lateralis) did not change significantly in the CC group, but was decreased by 49%
in the CR group after 1 wk, and by 51% after 6 wk. There was a close correlation 
between percent decrease in resting muscle glycogen and percent decrease in
endurance (r = 0.79, P less than 0.01). The mean fasting and exercise plasma
glucose concentration was lower in the CR group than in the CC group after 6 wk, 
but no subject became hypoglycemic during exercise. Serum FFA, lactate, pyruvate,
beta-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, insulin, and glucagon changed similarly in
the two groups during exercise at base line, 1 and 6 wk. Glycerol concentration
was higher in the CR group during exercise only after 6 wk. Increases in serum
lactate concentrations, and a mean exercise respiratory quotient of 0.93
suggested that cycle exercise at approximately 75% VO2max used predominantly
glucose as a fuel.CONCLUSIONS: Resting muscle glycogen and endurance, during
cycle exercise at approximately 75% VO2max, were maintained during a 36%
carbohydrate, 830-kcal/d diet. In contrast, significant decreases, occurred in
resting muscle glycogen and endurance, during similar exercise, after 6 wk of a
1% carbohydrate, 830-kcal/d diet.

PMCID: PMC370811
PMID: 7263859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1995. Klin Wochenschr. 1981 Jul 15;59(14):797-802.

[Alanine as a nitrogen sparing and gluconeogenetic substrate in the postoperative
state (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Funovics J, Roth E, Mühlbacher F, Schulz F, Karner J, Schultis K, Ogris E,
Fritsch A.

An alanine infusion (90 mg/kg/h) for eight hours was administered to seven
patients after cholecystectomy in order to investigate the influence of elevated 
plasma alanine levels on the postoperative metabolism. The following metabolites 
and hormone concentrations were analysed in plasma: glucose, urea, free fatty
acids, ketone bodies, amino acids, insulin and glucagon. Compared to the
pre-infusion values on the 1. postoperative day after an overnight fasting, the
following changes were monitored. The plasma glucose concentrations reached a
maximum after four hours of infusion (p less than 0.05). Of the amino acids,
significant elevated levels were found for alanine (300%, p less than 0.001),
glutamine (36%, p less than 0.05), and alpha-aminobutyrate (61%, p less than
0.01). The free fatty acids and ketone bodies concentrations decreased
immediately after the onset of the infusion of alanine (p less than 0.05), the
increased again during the last four hours of infusion. The secretion of insulin 
and also the secretion of glucagon were stimulated by the increased alanine
levels. The stimulation of insulin reached a maximum after only five minutes, but
the glucagon levels increased continuously until the end of the infusion. During 
the administration of alanine a nitrogen homeostasis was achieved, which was a
significant improvement (p less than 0.001) when compared to saline infusions
before and after the alanine infusion.CONCLUSIONS: (1) Postoperative increased
plasma levels of alanine stimulate gluconeogenesis and reduce the plasma levels
of lipolytic metabolites. The induced stimulation of insulin and glucagon is
dependent on the duration of the alanine infusion for during extended infusion of
alanine the insulin stimulation diminishes while the glucagon secretion
continuously increases. (2) Alanine is a potent anabolic substrate in the
immediate postoperative situation.

PMID: 7021995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1996. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1981 Jul;97(3):376-83.

Effect of dietary calcium on secretion of calcitonin and gastrin in rats with
medullary thyroid carcinoma.

Hongslo CF, Myhre L, Flaten O, Johannessen JW, Gautvik KM, Ekeland A.

Rats transplanted with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) were divided into 3
groups which received for 34 weeks diets with low (0.09%), medium (0.40%) or high
(1.80%) calcium content with a calcium/phosphate ratio 2:1. After 6 weeks the
different calcium regimens produced corresponding variations in serum calcium and
inverse changes in serum magnesium. No alterations in serum proteins were
observed. Serum immunoreactive calcitonin (iCT) was unaltered until week 28 of
the experiment, but thereafter increased rapidly by about 4-fold. No difference
in serum iCT was observed between the 3 groups at any time. Immunoreactive serum 
gastrin was reduced in rats on medium and low calcium diet compared to those on a
high calcium diet. After 28 weeks, when serum iCT was rising, gastrin values fell
in rats on high calcium diet to levels approaching those in the other groups.
With increased serum iCT (weeks 28-34) serum gastrin concentrations were low and 
equal in the 3 groups despite different serum calcium concentrations.
Electronmicroscopic examination of tumors from the various diet groups did not
reveal significant ultrastructural differences.IN CONCLUSION: low, medium and
high calcium intake gave corresponding changes in serum calcium. Diet-induced
hypercalcaemia was not normalized by elevated serum iCT. In contrast, serum
immunoreactive gastrin maintained by high calcium diet was suppressed by
hypercalcitonaemia.

PMID: 7257702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1997. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jul;63(6):954-60.

The role of incompetence of the anterior cruciate and lateral ligaments in
anterolateral and anteromedial instability. A biomechanical study of cadaver
knees.

Lipke JM, Janecki CJ, Nelson CL, McLeod P, Thompson C, Thompson J, Haynes DW.

The anterolateral and anteromedial stability of seventeen fresh frozen cadaver
knees was studied in a test apparatus designed to simulate physiological
conditions. Statistically significant increases in internal rotation occurred in 
seven knees when only the anterior cruciate ligament was sectioned, and these
increases were enhanced by subsequent sectioning of the posterolateral complex
and the lateral collateral ligament, singly or in combination. On the other hand,
sectioning of the posterolateral complex and of the lateral collateral ligament, 
leaving the anterior cruciate intact, did not produce significant increases in
internal rotation until the anterior cruciate ligament was sectioned in seven
knees. When the entire anterolateral capsule was sectioned as far posterior as
the lateral collateral ligament in three knees, no changes in internal or
external rotation occurred. Only when the posterolateral complex was sectioned
was there a significant increase in external rotation in any of the
ligament-sectioning sequences. Thus, it appears that for pathological internal
rotation of the tibia on the femur to occur, the anterior cruciate ligament must 
be incompetent.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The test apparatus and the results are useful 
in assessing which ligament structures contribute to clinically noted rotational 
knee instabilities.

PMID: 7240336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1998. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jul;63(6):872-7.

A biomechanical study of normal functional elbow motion.

Morrey BF, Askew LJ, Chao EY.

We studied thirty-three normal patients, eighteen women and fifteen men, for
normal motion and the amount of elbow motion required for fifteen activities of
daily living. The amounts of elbow flexion and forearm rotation (pronation and
supination) were measured simultaneously by means of an electrogoniometer.
Activities of dressing and hygiene require elbow positioning from about 140
degrees of flexion needed to reach the occiput to 15 degrees of flexion required 
to tie a shoe. Most of these activities are performed with the forearm in zero to
50 degrees of supination. Other activities of daily living (such as eating, using
a telephone, or opening a door) are accomplished with arcs of motion of varying
magnitudes. Most of the activities of daily living that were studied in this
project can be accomplished with 100 degrees of elbow flexion (from 30 to 130
degrees) and 100 degrees of forearm rotation (50 degrees of pronation and 50
degrees of supination).CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These data, not previously recorded,
may be used to provide an objective basis for the determination of disability
impairment, to determine the optimum position for elbow splinting or arthrodesis,
and to assist in the design of elbow prostheses. The motion needed to perform
essential daily activities is obtainable with a successful total elbow
arthroplasty.

PMID: 7240327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1999. Diabetologia. 1981 Jun;20(6):636-41.

Insulin receptor binding and receptor-mediated insulin degradation in human
adipocytes.

Pedersen O, Hjøllund E, Beck-Nielsen H, Lindskov HO, Sonne O, Gliemann J.

125I-insulin binding and receptor-mediated insulin degradation were studied in
isolated human fat cells from subcutaneous tissue. A high albumin concentration
during cell isolation and incubation protected the fragile human adipocyte from
lysis. Binding of tracer was pH dependent with an optimum between 7.4 and 7.6. At
37 degrees C steady state was reached by 45 min and maintained for at least 2 h. 
The binding of labelled insulin in the presence of 10 mumol/l unlabelled insulin 
was only 1-4% of the total insulin binding. The half-maximal displacement of
tracer iodoinsulin (10 pmol/l) by unlabelled insulin occurred at 0.25 nmol/l.
Kinetic studies of the dissociation of labelled iodoinsulin from fat cells showed
a slight acceleration in the presence of a high concentration of unlabelled
insulin in the washout buffer as compared to a buffer containing no insulin. At
steady state binding about 95% of the cell-associated radioactivity was extracted
as iodoinsulin as judged by gel filtration. The remaining 5% co-eluted with
iodotyrosine. During 60 min about 90% of the cell-associated radioactivity
dissociated as iodoinsulin and the rest as iodotyrosine.CONCLUSIONS: 1) A high
albumin content of buffers prevents traumatization of the human adipocyte; 2)
under these conditions steady state binding of insulin is readily measured at 37 
degrees C; 3) the use of a washing procedure makes the non-specific binding
negligible; 4) the human adipocyte insulin receptor has a very high affinity; 5) 
receptor-mediated insulin degradation is minimal.

PMID: 7021280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2000. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jun;63(5):805-10.

Comparison of cyclic loading versus constant compression in the treatment of
long-bone fractures in rabbits.

Wolf JW Jr, White AA 3rd, Panjabi MM, Southwick WO.

The strengths of healing long-bone fractures treated in two different mechanical 
environments were compared using a rabbit experimental model. Constant
compression was applied to one healing tibial fracture, while the other was
subjected to cyclic compression. At six weeks of healing, the group of tibial
fractures treated with cyclic loading exhibited significantly higher torque and
energy absorption to failure and lower stiffness than their pair-mates treated
with constant compression. No statistically significant differences were detected
at four or eight weeks of healing, although there was a suggestion that
compression-treated bones may be stronger in the earlier phases of
healing.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This experiment suggests that the requirements for
rapid fracture-healing may vary with the stage of healing; that is, rigid
immobilization applied during the initial stages of healing followed by
intermittent compression during later stages.

PMID: 7248013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2001. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jun;63(5):780-7.

The effect of prolonged physical training on the properties of long bone: a study
of Wolff's Law.

Woo SL, Kuei SC, Amiel D, Gomez MA, Hayes WC, White FC, Akeson WH.

Five one-year-old immature swine were subjected to twelve months of exercise
training. Four matched swine with no training served as controls. After they were
killed, four-millimeter-wide strips of bone taken from the anterior, medial,
posterior, and lateral quadrants of the central femoral diaphysis were subjected 
to four-point bending tests to failure. It was found that although exercise did
not change the mechanical properties of the cortical bone, it resulted in
significant increases in the averaged femoral cross-sectional properties: 17 per 
cent in cortical thickness, 23 per cent in cortical cross-sectional area, and 21 
per cent and 27 per cent in maximum and minimum area moments of inertia,
respectively. These changes were due primarily to reduction in the diameter of
the medullary canal. The analyses of bone composition showed that the bone
density and biochemical contents of the control and exercised animals were
similar, but the total volume and the dry, ash, and calcium weights of the
exercised bone were significantly higher. These combined results suggest that
prolonged exercise has a significant effect on the quantity of the bone, but not 
on its quality.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: It has long been recognized that stress
deprivation from immobilization in plaster casts results in profound bone
atrophy, and it is generally accepted that a minimum level of activity is
necessary for homeostasis of bone. These results show that exercise at a level
comparable to that prescribed in running fitness programs for humans (65 to 80
per cent of maximum heart rate) can not only maintain homeostasis, but produce
actual hypertrophy of bone. This work further suggests the importance of
graduated, prolonged, supervised rehabilitation programs in overcoming
osteoporotic states.

PMID: 7240300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2002. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jun;63(5):811-3.

Efficacy of double-gloving as a barrier to microbial contamination during total
joint arthroplasty.

McCue SF, Berg EW, Saunders EA.

After ten total hip replacements in which a double-glove technique was used, 275 
outer and inner gloves were tested for microbial contamination and for holes. The
operating rooms were equipped with specially designed air-filtration mechanisms. 
The results indicated that the gloves that most frequently were contaminated were
the ones used exclusively for draping. This finding suggests that using a
separate pair of outer gloves only for draping is a valuable technique during
total hip replacement.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Although the practice of using double
gloves during a total joint-replacement procedure is accepted widely, there is
little evidence that double-gloving actually decreases microbial contamination.
The results of this study indicate that changing outer gloves at appropriate
times during the procedure is indeed an important way to minimize contamination.

PMID: 7016885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2003. Percept Mot Skills. 1981 Jun;52(3):727-32.

Lucid dreaming verified by volitional communication during REM sleep.

La Berge SP, Nagel LE, Dement WC, Zarcone VP Jr.

SUMMARY: The occurrence of lucid dreaming (dreaming while being conscious that
one is dreaming) has been verified for 5 selected subjects who signaled that they
knew they were dreaming while continuing to dream during unequivocal REM sleep.
The signals consisted of particular dream actions having observable concomitants 
and were performed in accordance with pre-sleep agreement. The ability of
proficient lucid dreamers to signal in this manner makes possible a new approach 
to dream research--such subjects, while lucid, could carry out diverse dream
experiments marking the exact time of particular dream events, allowing
derivation of of precise psychophysiological correlations and methodical testing 
of hypotheses.

PMID: 24171230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2004. Psychiatry Res. 1981 Jun;4(3):267-76.

Methodological issues in the measurement of urinary MHPG.

Muscettola G, Potter WZ, Gordon EK, Goodwin FK.

Reported mean values for urinary 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) for both 
depressed patients and controls vary substantially between laboratories. The
present study describes methodological sources of variance affecting urinary MHPG
values. Although intra-assay variance is small (coefficient of variation (CV) =
4.6%), the interassay variance is high (CV = 14.3%) and suggests caution in the
interpretation of small group differences. The gas chromatographic (GC) method in
this laboratory produces values highly correlated (r = 0.98) with those obtained 
by a reference gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) method. The
absolute values obtained by GC are 20% higher than those by GC-MS--a problem that
may be shared to a varying extent by all GC assays.IN CONCLUSION: methodological 
differences do contribute to some of the variation in reported values of urinary 
MHPG.

PMID: 6943594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2005. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 1981 Jun;52(2):69-77.

[Experimental study on ego functions of the blind: plastics Rorschach techniques 
(1) (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Betsumiya A.

Plastics Rorschach stimuli (PRS) were produced through the same randamization
procedure as the Rorschach figures. Ego functions of the blind may be studied by 
the use of PRS to which even the complete blind can respond.METHOD: Subjects of
normal visual acuity are 39 (22 males) and blind subjects 24 (20 males). Results 
: Differences between the eye mask condition and visual condition and between the
group of normal visual acuity and the group of the blind were studied. These two 
results were compared with each other. Conculsions: PRS is one of the useful
means to study the blind's ego functions as well as the roles of dermal sensation
and visual perception in ego functions in general.

PMID: 7321333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2006. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1981 Jun;185(3):125-36.

[Diabetes and Pregnancy (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Artner J, Irsigler K, Ogris E, Rosenkranz A.

The article reports on the experiences collected during treatment and delivery of
316 pregnant diabetic women hospitalized in the municipal hospital of
Vienna-Lainz. 1. Close co-operation between diabetologist, obstetricians and
pediatricians in imperative. 2. Early diagnosis and recording - as far as
possible before conception -, accurate control and intensive care by the
diabetologist and obstetrician right from the beginning is most essential; the
aim should be to attain normoglycaemic levels preferably during the first 3
months of pregnancy. 3. In the case of diabetic patients requiring insulin who
are difficult to stabilize, it would be desirable to effect stabilization in the 
hospital, followed by self-control of blood sugar levels with self-adjusted
insulin variation. Above all, overweight should be avoided. 4. Obstetric
intensive care can be effected only in a department with modern equipment. 5. In 
case of complications, it will always be necessary to provide for additional
hospitalization over and above the routine cases; such hospitalization must
always consist of combined obstetric and internistic medical care. 6.
Prognostically Bad Signs of Pregnancy (PBSP) groups must be kept as small as
possible. 7. Childbirth should be approximated as closely as possible to the
calculated date of birth (in While A cases up to the 40th week of pregnancy, with
the other patients at least up to the 38th week of pregnancy). The necessary
controls which can justify postponing the time of birth, are explained. The
approximation to the calculated data of birth depends largely on optimal
stabilization of the diabetes to normoglycaemic levels during the entire
pregnancy period. This is documented, inter alia, by normal weight of the newborn
at the time of birth, corresponding to the duration of pregnancy. 8. Vaginal
delivery should be aimed at. 9. Newborn are always high-risk infants; the first
few minutes of live are absolutely decisive. The infants should be placed in the 
care of a team of pediatricians as early as possible, combined with transfer to a
children's hospital with intensive-care ward, using an intensive-care ambulance
for effecting the transfer. 10.RESULTS: These measures led to a reduction of the 
mortality rate (reduced to the corrected values), the average of which had been
12.5% during 1970-1971, to 1.85% during 1972-1979. The proportion of PBSP groups,
which was originally 32.42%, dropped during the same period to 20.79%, the
perinatal mortality in this group being reduced from 50% to 17.24%.

PMID: 7023085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2007. Z Kardiol. 1981 Jun;70(6):450-4.

[201-thallium stress scintigram in patients with coronary artery disease after
administration of the cardioselective betablocker atenolol (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Chlup J, Engel HJ, Pretschner P, Lichtlen PR.

Changes of regional myocardial perfusion before and after administration of
Atenolol (AT) (5 mg i.v.) were investigated by 201-Tl stress-imaging in 14
patients (PAT) with greater than or equal to 70% coronary obstructions.
Scintigrams were performed in 4 projections (AP, 30 degree LAO, 60 degrees LAO,
left lateral); scintigraphic defects (SD) in one of the 6 LV segments (anterior, 
apical, inferior, septal, lateral, posterior) had to be identified in at least 2 
projections and to show a decrease of activity greater than or equal to 25%. All 
PAT had at least one reversible SD.RESULTS: After AT, stress, induced SDs were
unchanged in 11 of the 14 PAT at identical work loads (131 Watt). The total
number of reversible defects was 33 before and 28 after AT (n.s.). However, not
only the 3 PAT with improved stress scintigrams, but also 6 of the 11 PAT with
unchanged abnormal stress scintigrams were clinically improved (ECG normalized,
no angina). Thus in almost half of the patients (6/14), the stress ECG was
normalized without normalization of perfusion pattern of thallium scintigrams. We
conclude that in these patients subendocardial perfusion was enough improved to
meet the reduced metabolic needs, but not enough to normalize stress images.

PMID: 7257500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2008. Fortschr Med. 1981 May 28;99(20):761-4.

[A very promising treatment method in psoriasis. Short-term anthralin therapy].

[Article in German]

Kunze J, Petres J.

New found knowledge concerning the penetration kinetics of anthralin induced us
to modify the treatment of psoriasis. The new method was compared in a right-left
test with the classical anthralin therapy in 9 patients. After that the entire
body was treated with the short-term therapy on 45 patients with severe
psoriasis.METHOD: once a day 1%-anthralin-5%-salicylic acid vaseline was rubbed
over all parts of the skin and after 10 minutes washed off thoroughly. Within a
few days the dosage was increased up to 3% anthralin and the application time up 
to 20 minutes if possible. The treatment was continued on the level according to 
the individual tolerance. With the new method there was an earlier healing
process and the time of treatment was therefore shortened. Moreover after a few
days of hospitalization it was possible to continue the treatment at home with
cooperative patients, able to go on with their work. Short-time anthralin therapy
seems to optimate the classical method.

PMID: 7262756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2009. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1981 May;74(5):587-91.

[Optimal age for the surgical treatment of aortic coarctation. Statistical study 
on long-term blood pressure values].

[Article in French]

Bertranou EG, Meyzer JP, Aigueperse J.

A retrospective statistical study on late blood pressure in patients operated for
coarctation of the aorta have been done, in order to determine the optimum age
for elective surgical treatment. Patients were considered hypertensive when their
mean blood pressure exceeded the 90th percentile for their age and sex. The
series included 126 isolated coarctation of the aortic isthmus operated at the
CMC of the Porte de Choisy. The incidence of residual hypertension at rest in the
series is as follows: age 1-5: 16,6 %;age 6-10: 34,3%; age 11-15: 47,5 %. In
spite of these results there is no significative difference in the incidence by
age group. A similar study by the Massachusetts General Hospital on 77 patients
showed essentially the same results. A combination of both series (203 patients) 
which is possible because the study criteria are the same, gives the following
results: age 1-5: 11,4 %;age 6-10: 31,9 %; age 11-20: 40,8 %. There is now a
significative difference between age group 1-5 and the others (p Less Than
0,02).IN CONCLUSION: the optimum age for elective correction of coarctation of
the aorta is 1-5 year. The incidence of residual hypertension is only 11,4 % in
that group (70 % confidence limits: 6 to 20%).

PMID: 6794480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2010. Atherosclerosis. 1981 May;39(2):133-46.

Relationships of gender, sex hormone use, and age with lipoprotein
cholesterol/triglyceride ratios in an adult population. The Pacific Northwest
Bell Telephone Company health survey.

Knopp RH, Warnick GR, Walden CE, Wahl PW, Hoover JJ, Bergelin RO, Ogilvie JT,
Albers JJ, Hazzard WR.

Effects of gender, sex hormone use, and age on lipoproteins composition have been
evaluated in 603 Caucasian subjects, ages 20-59, randomly selected from employees
participating in the Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company Health Survey.
Lipoprotein composition in this analysis is defined as the cholesterol to
triglyceride (C/TG) ratio in each lipoprotein fraction. The lipoprotein C/TG
ratio is inversely related to the lipoprotein triglyceride concentrations in
VLDL, LDL and HDL; the ratio falling in each instance as lipoprotein triglyceride
concentration increases. Plots of this relationship are virtually superimposable 
among women hormone users and nonusers and men in VLDL and HDL and between men
and nonhormone taking women in LDL. A consistently lower C/TG ratio is observed
in LDL for hormone-treated women compared to the other 2 groups. Age in these
analysis is without effect.CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesize that a lower LDL (C/TG)
ratio is hormone-treated women may render the lipoprotein less crystalline or
smectic and potentially less atherogenic. No such difference exists in the
lipoprotein C/TG ratio between men and nonhormone-treated women and therefore
cannot explain the observed difference in atherosclerosis sick. Nonetheless, the 
C/TG ratios may predict atherosclerosis if the ratio is high in VLDL or in LDL.
However, the significance of the HLD (C/TG) ratio remains to be established.

PMID: 7247995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2011. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1981 May;52(5):291-3.

Influence of ambient and core temperatures on auditory canal temperature.

Morgans LF, Nunneley SA, Stribley RF.

Ear canal temperature (Tac) is a useful indicator of human body temperature under
some laboratory conditions. Tac has also been used in field studies, but problems
arise there due to its susceptibility to external influences such as wind.
Experiments on five resting subjects in an environmental chamber showed that 1)
compared to a warm environment (35 degrees C), a cool one (22 degrees C) produced
significant lowering of both Tac and rectal temperature (Tre), 2) the cool
condition increased the difference between Tre and Tac, and 3) head treatment
(helmet wear, wind) significantly affected Tac. In a second series of
experiments, six subjects exposed to the same conditions performed mild exercise 
to abolish the progressive decline in Tre seen at 22 degrees C. Results showed
that Tac still reflected external temperature and continued to show the influence
of head treatment.CONCLUSION: Tac has only limited usefulness in aircrew studies 
or other field work unless subjects can wear a protective helmet throughout the
period of data collection.

PMID: 7247900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2012. Cardiovasc Res. 1981 May;15(5):282-6.

Time-dependent response of coronary flow to prolonged adenosine infusion:
doubling of peak reactive hyperaemic flow.

L'Abbate A, Camici P, Trivella MG, Pelosi G, Davies GJ, Ballestra AM, Taddei L.

In 11 anaesthetised, Open chest dogs the time course and degree of the coronary
vasodilating response to intracoronary adenosine infusion was assessed.
Continuous adenosine infusion, at a rate of 2.5 to 13.5 mumol . min-1, produced
rapid (15 to 30s) vasodilation of the same degree as that evoked by a 30 s period
of ischaemia (reactive peak hyperaemia), a finding reported previously by others.
However, continuing the infusion led to further coronary vasodilation, reaching a
maximum 20 to 45 min from the beginning of the infusion and remaining constant
for up to 2 h, independently of further increases in the dose. This late response
produced, on average, vasodilatation twice as great as that observed during
reactive hyperaemia and was not associated with any haemodynamic change or with
the opening of arterio-venous shunts.THE RESULTS: 1) suggest the existence of a
double, time-dependent response of coronary receptor(s) to adenosine; 2)
demonstrate, in the presence of a prolonged vasodilating stimulus, a possible
increase in coronary blood flow to a degree far beyond that of post-ischaemic
reactive peak flow, which is generally considered to be the maximal value of
coronary blood flow that can be achieved.

PMID: 7296586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2013. Horm Metab Res. 1981 May;13(5):245-9.

Determination of 24-hour insulin infusion pattern by an artificial endocrine
pancreas for intravenous insulin infusion with a miniature pump.

Kølendorf K, Christiansen JS, Bojsen J, Svendsen PA, Teglbjaerg LL.

Intravenous insulin infusion with a glucose controlled insulin infusion system
(GCIIS) is known to restore glucose homeostasis. A simpler approach to improve
blood glucose regulation is preprogrammed intravenous insulin infusion with
portable pumps without sensor-mediated feedback. We report a study designed to
evaluate whether the preprogrammed insulin infusion pattern to be used in the
miniature insulin infusion pump (MIIP) could be optimized by concomitant
employment of the GCIIS for blood glucose control. Six juvenile-onset
insulin-dependent diabetics (mean age 31 yrs) were studied. Mean blood glucose
(MBG) was 6.2 mmol/l +/- 0.5 (SD) during glucose controlled infusion and 5.3 +/- 
0.6 during the combined MIIP + GCIIS-day. The insulin requirements calculated
from the s.c. regimen (56 U +/- 10 SD) were identical to the GCIIS-measured (51 U
+/- 14) and to the amounts delivered during the combined MIIP-GCIIS infusion day 
(54 U +/- 13). A mean surplus of 3 U was given by the GCIIS. Mean amplitude of
glycaemic excursions (MAGE) was 3.0 mmol/l during GCIIS-control, and 3.3 mmol/l
during combined infusion.IN CONCLUSION: The GCIIS was found capable of
calculating the 24-hour insulin dose in well-known, unstable diabetics; however, 
it did not improve the preprogrammed insulin infusion profile obtained by the
MIIP.

PMID: 7021384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2014. Horm Metab Res. 1981 May;13(5):277-82.

The metabolic serum clearance of GnRH. Relationship to age, sex and male puberty.

Tharandt L, Rosanowski C, Windeck R, Benker G, Hackenberg K, Reinwein D.

The MCR of constantly infused synthetic GnRH (1.53 micrograms/min) was studied in
relation to age, sex, and male sexual maturation. GnRH was determined by a
radioimmunoassay using a specific GnRH antiserum and 125I-GnRH, prepared by the
chloramine T technique and purified on Sephadex G 25. Serum LH and FSH were
measured by RIA. The results (mean values +/- SEM) of MCR expressed here as
ml/min/1.86 m2 showed a statistically significant difference: infants (6-13 yrs) 
1170 +/- 79, sexually mature males (22-29 yrs) 639 +/- 28, elderly men (64-79
yrs) 520 +/- 38, sexually mature females (20-24 yrs) follicular phases: 1354 +/- 
90, luteal phases: 1736 +/- 242, postmenopausal women (53-74 yrs) 598 +/- 45. We 
found a linear negative correlation between serum LH and MCR of GnRH in both
sexes. During male puberty the MCRLH-RH decreased simultaneously to the stages of
pubic hair development.IN CONCLUSION: 1) The MCR of GnRH is a function of age,
sex, and sexual maturation, 2) its negative linear correlation with LH in both
sexes indicates that the MCR presumably reflects endogenous GnRH levels, 3) the
MCRGnRH seem to be subject to endocrine regulation.

PMID: 6790400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2015. J Trauma. 1981 May;21(5):372-5.

Effects of 5,6 benzo-alphapyrone on traumatic edema due to crush and burn injury.

Miller SH, Abell M, Buck D, Kress D, Davis TS, DeMuth RJ.

Benzopyrones are a class of drugs which have been used clinically and
experimentally in Europe and Australia to reduce tissue swelling caused by
high-protein edema states. These drugs are not available nor have they been
investigated in the United States. This pilot experiment was designed to
determine if one of these compounds, 5,6 benzo-alphapyrone, is effective in
reducing traumatic edema from thermal and crush injury.METHOD: One hind limb of
34 Sprague-Dawley rats was immersed for 30 seconds in 55 degrees C water and the 
animals divided into three groups as follows: Group I--no treatment; Group II--17
cc saline/kg body weight IP; Group III--25 mg 5,6 benzopyrone in 17 cc saline/kg 
body weight IP. In another 30 S-D rats, the soft tissue of the posterior aspect
on one hind limb was crushed in a Servistor vise (jaws to within 1 mm of each
other) for 5 minutes. They were divided into three groups and treated as in the
thermal injury group. After 24 hours both limbs were amputated, weighed, dried,
and reweighed. Crushed and burned rat hind limbs treated with benzopyrone after
injury had significantly greater dry weights (less edema) than did untreated or
saline treated limbs. Benzopyrone appears to be effective in reducing edema
following crush and thermal injury in this experimental system. Further studies
are being conducted to elucidate the mechanism of action of benzopyrones, their
potential activity in other postinjury edema, and their effect on tissue
survival.

PMID: 7230282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2016. Jpn J Antibiot. 1981 May;34(5):663-9.

[Clinical studies of cefotiam in the field of pediatrics (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Minamitani M, Hachimori K, Nakazawa H, Tomori N.

The therapeutic effects of cefotiam (CTM) in the pediatric field were studied,
and the following results were obtained: 1. Absorption and excretion: After 30
minutes intravenous drip infusion of 250 mg (14.7 mg/kg) of CTM to a 5-year old
child weighing 17 kg, the serum levels and urinary excretion were measured. The
serum levels were 47.8 mcg/ml at 30 minutes after administration, 23.9 mcg/ml
after 1 hour, 12.5 mcg/ml after 1 hour and 30 minutes, 5.2 mcg/ml after 2 hours
and 30 minutes, 0.3 mcg/ml after 6 hours and 30 minutes. Excretion rate in the
urine was 48.8% at 6 hours after administration. 2.CLINICAL RESULTS: CTM was
administered at a daily dose of 35 to 91 mg/kg b.i.d. to q.i.d. by intravenous or
intravenous drip injection for 2 to 6.5 days to six patients i.e. two with
bronchopneumonia, one with acute bronchitis, one with acute enteritis, one with
impetigo and atopic dermatitis one with acute tonsillitis and acute cervical
lymphadenitis. The responses were excellent in 2 cases and good in 4 cases. The
response rate was 100%. No side effect was observed.

PMID: 6270406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2017. Med Klin. 1981 Apr 24;76(9):254-5, 79.

[Experience with nearly 20,000 blind liver punctures].

[Article in German]

Wildhirt E, Möller E.

Report about the experience in almost 20000 cases of percutaneous liver biopsy.
The puncture was done by Menghini needle.COMPLICATIONS: No case of death, 11
bleedings, 1 biliary peritonitis, 1 exudative pleurisy, 1 valvular pneumothorax, 
2 hematothoraxes. In 5 cases laparotomy was necessary. The frequency of non
lethal complications was 0,08%, of complications with following laparotomy 0,25%.
All punctions were done with a needle caliber of 1,8 mm. Our experience shows
that the risk of bleeding is not correlated with the caliber of the punction
needle. In comparison with other statistics the postpunctional morbidity is
distinctly better; fortunately we had no mortality.

PMID: 7278799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2018. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1981 Apr-Jun;18(2):173-9.

Previous exposure to glucose enhances insulin and suppresses glucagon responses
to arginine in man.

Adamson U, Grill V, Efendić S.

The effects of previous exposure to glucose on the insulin, glucagon, growth
hormone and blood glucose responses to subsequent stimulation with L-arginine
were investigated in normal man. During control conditions (i.e., after 120 min
of saline infusion), the i.v. administration of arginine enhanced the release of 
all three hormones and caused a small and transient rise in blood glucose. When
arginine was preceded by i.v. glucose during 0-60 min, followed by a 'rest
period' of 60-120 min, the insulin release induced by the amino acid was further 
enhanced, glucagon and GH release were unaffected and blood glucose depressed
below control levels. When arginine was preceded by a small oral glucose load
(0.5 g/kg) the initial insulin response to arginine was augmented, the initial
glucagon response was slightly but significantly depressed and blood glucose
lowered while the growth hormone response was unaffected.CONCLUSIONS: (1) a
near-physiological intake of glucose increases insulin and depresses glucagon
secretion evoked by amino acids resulting in increased glucose disposal; (2) the 
modifications of the insulin and glucagon responses constitute separate
components in the feed-back regulation of glucose homeostasis.

PMID: 7018150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2019. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1981 Apr;96(4):491-7.

Effect of thyroid function on serum somatomedin activity.

Marek J, Schüllerova M, Schreiberova O, Límanová Z.

To obtain more information about a possible role of somatomedins in mediating the
effects of thyroid hormones on the development and function of epiphyseal
cartilage, somatomedin activity, measured on the basis of 35S incorporation in
embryonic chick cartilage, was studied in thyrotoxic patients before and after
treatment with carbimazole or surgery and in a group of patients with primary
hypothyroidism. In 29 hyperthyroid patients mean values of somatomedin were 1.29 
+/- 0.03 SEM an differed significantly (P less than 0.01) from normals (1.04 +/- 
0.03). In 15 carbimazole treated patients and in 5 operated patients with
thyrotoxicosis somatomedin levels fell from 1.29 +/- 0.04 to 1.03 +/- 0.04 (P
less than 0.01) when the patients became euthyroid. Correspondingly, somatomedin 
levels in 12 untreated hypothyroid patients (0.82 +/- 0.04) were significantly
less than in normals (P less than 0.01) an increased from 0.77 +/- 0.09 to 1.14
+/- 0.13 (P less than 0.05) in 4 patients on replacement therapy.IN CONCLUSION:
somatomedin levels rise when thyroid hormones are present in excess, and fall
when these are deficient. This suggests that thyroid hormones are important
regulators of somatomedin levels.

PMID: 7211105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2020. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1981 Apr;63(4):357-66.

Factors predisposing to institutionalism.

Liberakis EA.

All psychiatric patients staying in hospital-supervised boarding homes, and a
random sample of 50 long-stay patients in the wards of the only mental hospital
in Newfoundland were surveyed to determine if certain premorbid factors
predispose to institutionalism ('institutional neurosis'). Three hundred and
twenty-four patients were examined. Low intelligence, poor education and
disabilities in hearing, speech, locomotion and manual dexterity, were
significantly associated with institutionalism. Extremes of age on first
admission, celibacy, low occupational status in the patient, or his father, and
visual disability did not prove to be associated with institutionalism.IN
CONCLUSION: institutionalism may be found among patients in boarding homes; some 
patients are more susceptible to institutionalism than others; and
institutionalism tends to be associated with those biological or social handicaps
which affect communication and activity of the patient.

PMID: 6458994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2021. Infusionsther Klin Ernahr. 1981 Apr;8(2):82-7.

[Serum amino acid determination after different blood processing and storage
methods].

[Article in German]

Semler P, Rippl HJ.

Blood samples of four volunteers were prepared for amino acid analysis in
different ways using 39 methods. The result was that after initial
deproteinisation of the blood samples different storage temperatures ranging from
-18 degrees C to -78 degrees C and different sorting periods from 2 to 6 months
did no influence the amino acid spectra. Storage at -4 degrees C did not show a
clear result, however slightly decreased glutamine levels. It is possible to
allow blood samples to stand at room temperature for further processing for at
least 60 minutes, without adverse influence on the analytical result.CONCLUSION: 
If it is impossible to carry out a quantitative amino acid analysis immediately
after blood withdrawal, the blood sample can be stored for several months at not 
more than -18 degrees C provided that within about 90 minutes after blood
withdrawal centrifugation and deproteinisation has been carried out.

PMID: 7194864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2022. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Apr;63(4):631-6.

Quantitation of skeletal-muscle necrosis in a model compartment syndrome.

Hargens AR, Schmidt DA, Evans KL, Gonsalves MR, Cologne JB, Garfin SR, Mubarak
SJ, Hagan PL, Akeson WH.

Skeletal-muscle necrosis was evaluated in previously pressurized canine
compartments using technetium-99m stannous pyrophosphate and classic histological
criteria. Intracompartmental necrosis was quantitated in the anterolateral muscle
compartment of each dog by uptake of 99mTc stannous pyrophosphate using the
contralateral anterolateral compartment as an internal control. Representative
specimens of muscle were sampled in experimental and control legs of each dog and
were analyzed by qualitative histological techniques. Muscle necrosis was
assessed in compartments forty-eight hours after pressurization to levels of ten 
to 120 millimeters of mercury for eight hours in thirty-seven dogs. In another
dog, neither anterolateral compartment was pressurized so that both compartments 
acted as control muscle. The results in these experiments identify a threshold
pressure level (thirty millimeters of mercury) and duration (eight hours) at
which significant muscle necrosis occurs at normal blood pressure. Our findings
imply that a quantitative relationship exists between incorporation of 99mTc
stannous pyrophosphate and the level of intracompartmental pressure. This uptake 
technique, however, is not suitable for diagnosing compartment syndrome in
patients with a threatened compartment syndrome. We suggest that
intracompartmental pressure measurements by the wick-catheter technique, in
conjunction with clinical findings, offer the best means for diagnosing
compartment syndrome.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Significant muscle necrosis associated
with an impending compartment syndrome occurs at a threshold intracompartmental
pressure of thirty millimeters of mercury after eight hours. Since time variables
are often unknown in suspected compartment syndromes, fasciotomy is recommended
when intracompartmental pressure exceeds thirty millimeters of mercury in a
patient with normal blood pressure. The use of this threshold pressure level as
an indication for fasciotomy requires a device for measuring intracompartmental
pressure such as the wick catheter.

PMID: 7217130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2023. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Apr;63(4):627-30.

Parameters of longitudinal growth rate in rabbit epiphyseal growth plates.

Seinsheimer F 3rd, Sledge CB.

Three parameters have been identified that provide useful indices of longitudinal
growth rate in rabbit epiphyseal plates. Specifically, we have examined the
relationship between longitudinal growth rate and (1) growth-plate thickness; (2)
the rate of cell division by proliferating chondrocytes; and (3) 35SO4
incorporation associated with matrix synthesis. There were statistically
significant correlations between growth rate and each of the three experimentally
determined parameters. Growth rate increased in direct proportion to growth-plate
thickness, rate of chondrocyte proliferation, or 35SO4 incorporation associated
with matrix synthesis. Of the three parameters, the rate of cell division of
proliferative chondrocytes, as determined by counts of 3H thymidine-labeled cells
following autoradiography, appeared to provide the most sensitive index of growth
rate. However, used in combination, determination of the three parameters should 
make it possible to assess the relative contributions of changes in the numbers
of cells, in the rate of chondrocyte proliferation, and in extracellular matrix
synthesis to over-all growth rate.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Methods are described and
data are presented that should make it possible to design studies of the factors 
that regulate and control the longitudinal growth rate of epiphyseal cartilage
growth plates. The experimental design of this work is applicable to the study of
hormonal regulation of over-all growth rates and to determination of whether the 
effects of certain hormones are due to their effect on cell proliferation or
matrix synthesis. Such studies should contribute to a better understanding of the
control of growth in normal individuals and in patients with disease.

PMID: 7217129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2024. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Apr;63(4):637-44.

Ultrastructural studies of cartilage matrix in mice homozygous for
chondrodysplasia.

Monson CB, Seegmiller RE.

The absence of columns of proliferative chondrocytes in mice with hereditary
chondrodysplasia (cho/cho) has been attributed to a lack of structural integrity 
of the cartilage matrix. To determine whether the abnormality is related to
defective interaction between proteoglycan and collagen, sternal cartilage from
control and mutant fetuses at eighteen days of gestation was examined with
autoradiographic and ultrastructural methods. The sulphate-labeling pattern in
the mutant fetuses was normal, suggesting that the defect is not due to regional 
differences in proteoglycan synthesis. The presence of ruthenium red-stained
matrix granules precipitated one collagen fibrils suggests that proteoglycan is
capable of interacting with collagen in the mutant's matrix. The absence of a
pericellular space and the presence of collagen fibrils adjacent to the external 
surface of the cell membrane suggests that the defect is due to precocious
assembly of collagen monomers into fibrils, resulting in the absence of a normal 
network of interconnecting collagen fibrils and proteoglycan. Further studies are
necessary to test this hypothesis.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Because the phenotype of
this mutation resembles certain forms of human skeletal dysplasia, mice with
hereditary chondrodysplasia may serve as a model to elucidate the molecular
mechanism for certain recessive disorders of chondrogenesis. In this regard, a
much improved understanding of gene action is needed before effective treatment
and corrective procedures can be applied to the eighty or more clinical forms of 
hereditary skeletal dysplasia.

PMID: 6163783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2025. Jpn J Antibiot. 1981 Apr;34(4):521-31.

[Fundamental and clinical studies on cefotaxime in the field of obstetrics and
gynecology (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Motomura R, Mori H, Teramoto C, Nishimura Y, Souda Y, Yamabe T.

Fundamental and clinical studies were made on cefotaxime (CTX), a new
cephalosporin antibiotic. The following results were obtained: 1. Antibacterial
activity: At a concentration of 3.13 mcg/ml, CTX inhibited the growth of 90.2% of
92 strains of Gram-negative rods and 80.0% of 15 strains of Gram-positive cocci. 
2. Concentrations of CTX in body fluids and genital organs after 2 g i.v.: (1)
CTX level in pus reached the peak (5.6mcg/ml) at 2 hours after administration.
(2) Mean CTX levels in the pelvic space exudate reached the peak (28.0 mcg/ml) at
2 hours after administration. (3) CTX levels in the uterine appendages and uterus
reached the peak (8.9 and 4.5 mcg/g, respectively) at 100 to 280 minutes after
administration. 3.CLINICAL RESULTS: CTX was excellent in 7 of 13 cases and good
in the remaining 6 cases. The response rate to CTX was 100%. 4. The
bacteriological effect: The bacteriological effect of CTX was also 100%. Bacteria
were eradicated in 7 of the 10 cases where organisms were demonstrated before CTX
treatment. Partial reduction bacteria was observed in the remaining 3 cases. 5.
No side effect attributable to CTX was observed.

PMID: 6270401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2026. Boll Soc Ital Biol Sper. 1981 Mar 15;57(5):540-5.

[Hemodynamic modifications induced by volatile anesthetics halothane, penthrane, 
ethrane) I. Cardiovascular effects].

[Article in Italian]

Cacchio M, Data PG, Della Valle R, Di Tano G.

We had intended to reckon quantitatively the effects of volatile
anaesthetics(Halothane, Ethrane, methoxyflurane or Penthrane) upon cardiovascular
system of healthy young mongrel dogs, 5-8 days interval each other. After
administration of a Halothane and Penthrane, heart rate(HR) increases of about
30%; blood pressure(BP) is decreasing of same percentage. Halothane causes a
slight increase upon pulmonary arterial pressure(PAP), while pulmonary arterial
flow(PAF) reaches 40% more than control values. Penthrane decreases of 30% PAP
and of about 40% PAF. Ethranic anaesthesia produces a slight fall on HR and BP,
while PAP doesn't result significatively modified; a marked decrease(40%) is
observed on PAF. Aortic flow(AF) is diminished(from 20 to 30%) by administration 
of these anaesthetics.IN CONCLUSION: Halothane causes very significative
modifications on circulation, less modifications are produced by Penthrane, while
Ethrane doesn't produce any changes.

PMID: 7259884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2027. Br J Nutr. 1981 Mar;45(2):257-67.

Influence of mild cold on 24 h energy expenditure, resting metabolism and
diet-induced thermogenesis.

Dauncey MJ.

1. It has been suggested previously that people in developed countries do not
expose themselves to cold severe enough to induce a metabolic response. The
energy expenditure, at both heat production and total heat loss, of nine women
was therefore measured continuously while each lived for 30 h in a whole-body
calorimeter on two occasions, one at 28 degrees and the other at 22 degrees. All 
subjects followed a predetermined pattern of activity and food intake. The
environmental conditions were judged by the subjects to be within those
encountered in everyday life. In the standard clothing worn, 28 degrees was
considered to be comfortably warm but not too hot, while 22 degrees was judged to
be cool but not too cold. 2. Heat production for 24 h was significantly greater
at the lower temperature, by (mean +/- SE) 7 . 0 +/- 1 . 1%. The range was
between 2 and 12%. Total heat loss was also significantly greater, by 6%, and
there was a large change in the partition of heat loss. At the lower temperature 
sensible heat loss increased by 29% while evaporative heat loss decreased by 39%.
3. Resting metabolism measured in the morning 12--13 h after the last meal was
significantly greater at 22 degrees than at 28 degrees, whereas there was no
difference when the resting measurement was made for 2 . 5 h following a meal.
4.IN CONCLUSION: (a) environmental temperature may play a more important role
than was previously recognized in the energy balance of those living in this
country, and (b) there is an indication of at least a partial replacement of
cold-induced by diet-induced thermogenesis in man.

PMID: 7213581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2028. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1981 Mar;41(3):218-21.

[A double blind study of the treatment of threatened abortion with fenoterol
hydrobromide (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Ruppin E, Ruppin J, Chelius HH.

To study the effectiveness of Fenoterol Hydrobromide in the treatment of
threatened abortion a double blind trial was performed. A total of 112 patients
was examined. A comprehensive statistical analysis was made including Chi square 
and Student's t-test to provide a valid comparison of both, trial and control
groups, in order to eliminate any possible statistical bias, as seen in many of
the former studies of this topic.RESULTS: 1. The number of surviving children
during the perinatal period did not differ significantly in the placebo and
Fenoterol groups. 2. Fenoterol did not influence the course of pregnancy, full
term delivery or fetal outcome, unless early abortion occurred. 3. Pregnancies
resulting in abortions obviously were not prolonged by Fenoterol treatment. 4.
Histology of aborted pregnancies revealed major pathological findings in more
than 99% of the cases. So it may be presumed, that pharmacological treatment was 
bound to fail in these cases.

PMID: 7215765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2029. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Mar;63(3):449-53.

Quantification of intracompartmental pressure and volume under plaster casts.

Garfin SR, Mubarak SJ, Evans KL, Hargens AR, Akeson WH.

Infusion lines (to elevate intracompartmental pressure experimentally) and wick
catheters (to monitor the pressure produced) were inserted into hind-limb muscle 
compartments in twenty-six dogs. A padded plaster cast was then applied. The
effect of the cast on intracompartmental pressure and volume and the effect of
first splitting the cast and then cutting the padding were determined. Three
different padding were used: dry Webril, Webril soaked in blood and Betadine
(povidone-iodine), and Webril soaked in blood and Betadine and then dried. The
cast was found to restrict expansion of the compartment volume by approximately
40 per cent. The most significant reductions in pressure in all groups occurred
after the cast was cut and spread (mean reduction, 65 per cent). An additional
pressure reduction of 10 to 20 per cent occurred after cutting the Webril. After 
removal of the cast, all limbs maintained some residual elevation of the
intracompartmental pressure.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study demonstrates the need 
in clinical practice for continued evaluation and monitoring of a limb even after
the cast has been completely removed because of signs and symptoms of a
compartmental syndrome.

PMID: 7204445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2030. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Mar;63(3):442-8.

Hemodynamics of the femoral head.

Launder WJ, Hungerford DS, Jones LH.

We have determined the pressure-flow relationships of the canine femoral head
during venous tamponade of the hip capsule. Intra-osseous pressures were
determined before and after infusion of the joint with saline solution to a
pressure of sixty-five centimeters of water. Femoral head blood flow was
simultaneously determined by the indicator-dilution technique utilizing
isotopically labeled microspheres. In puppies, pressure in the femoral head rose 
248 per cent while flow dropped by 60 per cent after inflation of the capsule. In
adults, no statistically significant change in either pressure or flow was seen. 
Thus, in the immature animal, venous tamponade results in increased pressure and 
decreased blood flow. In the mature animal, venous tamponade does not alter
intra-osseous pressures or blood-flow rates due to the intact intramedullary
venous drainage of the adult femoral head.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In the immature
individual, venous tamponade may well be involved in the development of
Legg-Perthes disease. A bout of nonspecific synovitis may elevate intracapsular
pressure sufficiently to obstruct venous outflow. This creates an increase in
intra-osseous pressure and a decrease in femoral head blood flow. Hemodynamic
changes of this magnitude have not been shown to induce Legg-Perthes disease;
however, a strong suspicion exists that such alterations may be linked to the
disease. In the adult, venous tamponade probably is not involved in the
pathogenesis of avascular necrosis. The maintenance of intramedullary venous
drainage of the epiphysis into the metaphysis may account for the fact that
vascular necrosis of the femoral head rarely develops in adult patients with
osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis plus an inflammatory synovitis of the hip.

PMID: 7204444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2031. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Mar;63(3):427-42.

A comparison of the effect of open intramedullary nailing and compression-plate
fixation on fracture-site blood flow and fracture union.

Rand JA, An KN, Chao EY, Kelly PJ.

We compared the effects of compression-plating and open intramedullary nailing
after reaming on the vascular supply to a standard fracture site, on the rate of 
fracture union, and on the biomechanical quality of bone after union, and on the 
biomechanical quality of bone after union in dogs. The proper location of a
compression plate in relation to the periosteum also was investigated. Bone blood
flow reached higher levels and remained elevated longer in fractures that were
fixed with a rod than in those fixed with a plate. Rod-fixed fractures healed by 
periosteal callus, whereas plate-fixed fractures healed by endosteal callus. The 
fracture gained mechanical strength more slowly in the rod-fixed group than in
the plate-fixed group. Subperiosteal or extraperiosteal placement of a plate
revealed similar effects on bone-healing.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Decisions to use
intramedullary rods or compression plates for internal fixation of fractures
should be based on knowledge of the biological effects of these procedures on
blood flow at the fracture site and on the mechanical strength of the healing
fracture. This study defines in quantitative terms the advantages and
disadvantages of intramedullary rods compared with compression plates in the
internal fixation of fractures.

PMID: 7204443  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2032. J Cardiogr. 1981 Mar;11(1):199-207.

[The computerized display of epicardial mapping (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi H, Iwase T, Misaki T, Iwa T, Funada T.

The epicardial mapping is necessary for the surgical treatment of drug-resistant 
cardiac arrhythmia. The procedure for the epicardial mapping consists of three
stages: 1) recording of heart potentials, 2) extraction of excitation
transmission time, and 3) display of epicardial mapping. In this paper, our new
microcomputer-based system was discussed. It was achieved by this system to
simplify the method for the extraction and to make the colorgraphic display of
epicardial mapping. Two methods for extraction were used in this study to compare
with manual operation: 1) D method; extracting the time, when the differentiated 
wave takes maximal potential, and 2) Wi method; extracting the time of (Formula: 
see text).RESULTS: 1) similar epicardial excitation maps were obtained by these
computerized methods, and 2) the most approximate values of the transmission time
was obtained by Wi (i=2) method.

PMID: 7264385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2033. J Physiol (Paris). 1981 Mar;77(8):813-21.

[The presence of an albino ERG in the pigmented rat: genetic implications
(author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Weidner C.

The electroretinogram (ERG) of the albino rat (genotype c/c) differs from that of
the pigmented rat (hooded, Long-Evans) by the attenuation of the b-wave and the
disappearance of the c-wave which is replaced by a negative component. The
present study has shown that a similar alteration in the ERG is present in the
hypodactyl hooded rat (genotype hd/hd) (Fig. 1). The comparative analysis of the 
recordings indicated that: 1. The detection thresholds for the a and b waves were
identical in the three varieties (Fig. 2). 2. The wave-form of the P III
component observed after ischemia was also identical in the three strains (Fig.
1). 3. The modifications in the ERG induced by sodium azide (Fig. 4) and sodium
iodate (Fig. 5) in the hd/hd rat are the same as those which have been reported
in the c/c strain, and (as in the latter case) the absence of the c-wave is not
due to the disappearance of P I, but rather to an attenuation of this component
resulting in a negative algebraic sums of P I and P III (Fig. 6). 4.IN
CONCLUSION: the alterations in the ERG recording, observed in albinos, were
interpreted as being due to some fragility in the photoreceptors, consequent to a
lack of pigmentary protection. Such an interpretation is invalidated by the fact 
that a similar ERG pattern was found in both pigmented and albino rats. Because
genetic deficiencies other that the absence of a chromogene factor can modify the
ERG, it is suggested that the c-gene, as is the case for the hd-gene, could be
responsible for a disturbance of foetal erythropoiesis. Thus, the resulting
circulatory problems, without provoking any visible structural effects, would
nevertheless affect retinal functioning.

PMID: 7341760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2034. Neuroendocrinology. 1981 Mar;32(3):150-4.

Regulation of prolactin secretion in patients with Cushing's disease. A
comparative study on the effects of dexamethasone, lysine vasopressin and ACTH on
prolactin secretion by the rat pituitary gland in vitro.

Lamberts SW, de Quijada M, Visser TJ.

In 15 untreated patients with Cushing's disease the regulation of prolactin (PRL)
was evaluated. Plasma PRL was 11.5 +/- 4.8 vs. 5.3 +/- 3.6 ng/ml (patients with
Cushing's disease vs. control; mean +/- S.D.; p less than 0.001). The maximal
increment of plasma PRL in response to TRH was 32.3 +/- 17.3 vs. 27.9 +/- 17.2
ng/ml (NS); the maximal increment of plasma PRL in response to an insulin-induced
hypoglycemia was 3.8 +/- 4.6 vs. 22.7 +/- 12.4 ng/ml (p less than 0.001).
Additionally the effect of dexamethasone, lysine vasopressin and ACTH on the
secretion of PRL by rat pituitary glands in vitro was studied. Dexamethasone
(1.25--10 microM) inhibited the secretion of PRL. However, in the presence of
dexamethasone modulation of PRL release by TRH and dopamine remained unaltered.
Lysine vasopressin (5 nM - 5 microM) and ACTH (0.5--12.5 microM) did not have a
direct effect on PRL release by normal rat pituitary glands in vitro and these
substances also did not interfere with dopamine-mediated inhibition of PRL
release.CONCLUSIONS: In Cushing's disease the PRL responses to TRH (normal) and
to insulin-induced hypoglycemia (blunted) are differentially affected. Therefore,
hypercortisolism probably selectively interferes with the regulation of PRL
secretion at a suprahypophyseal level. It is concluded that TRH and dopamine
regulate PRL release at sites which are not under corticosteroid regulation,
while corticosteroids modulate PRL secretion in response to stress.

PMID: 6261178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2035. No Shinkei Geka. 1981 Mar;9(4):483-90.

[Computed tomographic metrizamide myelography in spinal disease (author's
transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Isu T, Ito T, Iwasaki Y, Tsuru M, Kitaoka K, Miyasaka K.

METHODS: Either EMT Head Scanner, CT 1010 (slice thickness 10mm) or EMI Body
Scanner, CT 5005 (slice thickness 13mm) was used. The concentration of
metrizamide was 170-250 mgI/microliter and the amount was 7-10 microliters.
Either lumbar puncture or lateral C puncture was made.
MATERIALS: 26 cases were included in this study. 1) disc disease: 11 cases, 2)
spinal cord tumor: 6 cases, 3) Arnold-Chiari malformation: 3 cases, 4)
atlantoaxial dislocation: 3 cases, 5) ossification of the posterior longitudinal 
ligament (associated with ossification of the ligamentum flavum): 2 cases (1
case), 6) spinal foreign body (acupuncture needle): 1 case.
RESULTS: 1) CT metrizamide myelography visualizes the subarachnoid space and
makes it possible to know the lesion in the spinal canal in relation to the
spinal cord in transverse plane. 2) It is difficult to determine the exact level 
of the lesion in axial plane. 3) The present technique does not allow to
visualize the root sleeves. 4) It is difficult to delineate a compression of the 
subarachnoid space by small localized lesions (esp., disc diseases) due to
overlapping the patent adjacent subarachnoid space within a slice 10 mm to 13 mm 
thick.

PMID: 7242831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2036. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1981 Feb;59(1):38-44.

Photographic screening for strabismus and high refractive errors of children aged
1-4 years.

Kaakinen K.

182 children (age 1-4 years) were photographed by health sisters at the annual
screening at the children's health care center as described by Kaakinen (1979).
The photographs were examined by an ophthalmologist to diagnose squint and/or
refractive error cases based on the typical changes in the corneal and fundus
reflexes. The cases found in this way were controlled clinically.RESULTS: 7
pathological cases were detected: 2 esotropias, 1 microesotropia, 2 hyperopias of
both eyes, 2 anisocorias. False positive were 6 cases, from which 4 were false
positive microstrabismus suspects and 2 cases with asymmetrical fundus reflexes, 
which were normal. 14 cases failed (9 (4.9%) looked to the side, and 5 (2.7%)
were technical failures). For the reliability of the method, a random sample of
20 children, who had normal corneal and fundus reflexes were examined clinically.
No anisometropia of over 0.5 diopters appeared among these 20 control cases, and 
the highest hyperopic and astigmatic errors that appeared were +1.75 diopters.
All the astigmatic cases were combined with a slight myopia of -0.5- -1.0
diopters in each case. No higher myopias occurred in this group, and all these 20
children had straight eyes with the cover test at near fixation.

PMID: 7211280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2037. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1981 Feb;74(2):179-84.

[Reevaluation of the electrocardiographic criteria of left anterior hemiblock
associated with lower infarction].

[Article in French]

Longo A, Bordalo AD, Ribeiro C.

A vectocardiographic (VCG) study of 90 consecutive cases of acute inferior
myocardial infarction (IMI) was carried out by Frank's method. The overall
incidence of intraventricular block was 40% and that of left anterior hemiblock
(LAH) 20% (18 cases). The ECG features of the 18 cases of LAH-acute IMI and of
the 55 cases of isolated acute IMI were compared with those of 100 cases of
confirmed chronic IMI comprising 50 cases of isolated infarction-LAH (on VCG) and
with 50 cases of isolated LAH (clinical and VCG diagnosis). The incidence of the 
six following electrocardiographic criteria were studied: 1) terminal negative
forces in Lead II and positive forces in AVR with left axis deviation 2) W-shaped
appearances in Leads II and AVF, 3) initial notching in Leads II, III and AVF, 4)
abnormal growth of the R wave from Lead II to Lead III, 5) combinations of the
four preceding criteria taken two by two, 6) the association of 3 of the 4
preceding criteria (from 1 to 4).RESULTS: A) Acute IMI: 1) isolated infarction:
criteria 1 - 7%; 2 - 2%; 3 - 5%; 4 - 2%; 5 - 4%; 6 - 0%; 2) IMI - LAH: 33%, 56%, 
61%, 17%, 50%, 6%, respectively. B) Chronic IMI: 1) isolated infarction: criteria
1 - 4%; 2 - 8%; 3 - 6%; 4 - 10%; 5 - 8%; 6 - 0%; 2) IMI - LAH: 72%, 22%, 60%,
74%, 42%, 44%, respectively. C) Isolated LAH: criteria 1 - 80%; 2 - 0%; 3 - 4%; 4
- 20%; 5 - 20%; 6 - 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: Some of the ECG criteria studied were relatively sensitive and were 
suggestive of the association IMI - LAH, but VCG was much more sensitive and
specific. Therefore, the incidence of LAH associated with acute IMI is probably
underestimated by ECG alone.

PMID: 6782974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2038. Biol Psychol. 1981 Feb;12(1):1-11.

Bilateral electrodermal activity as a function of hemisphere-specific
stimulation, hand preference, sex and familial handedness.

Smith BD, Ketterer MW, Concannon M.

The effects of unilateral stimulation on bilaterally recorded electrodermal
activity are not well understood. Factors that may contribute to bilateral
response differentiation under conditions of unilateral stimulation include
preferred hand, sex and familial handedness. To assess the effects of these
factors, 64 subjects were each assigned to one of four cells defined by sex and
preferred hand. Each subject received a counterbalanced series of 31 slides
depicting objects spatially and intended to activate the right hemisphere and 31 
slides depicting objects spatially and intended to activate the left hemisphere. 
Each condition was followed by a blank slide. Results showed smaller mean
nonspecific responses on the hand contralateral to the hemisphere for which
stimulation was intended. This supports the hypothesis that a contralateral
inhibitory process underlies electrodermal responsiveness. Further results showed
that the effects of unilateral stimulation on bilaterally differentiated
electrodermal activity are mediated by familial handedness and sex.DESCRIPTORS:
hemispheric processes, bilateral EDA, sex, familial handedness, preferred hand.

PMID: 7295846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2039. Blood. 1981 Feb;57(2):233-8.

Role of kidney in the catabolic clearance of human platelet antiheparin proteins 
from rat circulation.

Bastl CP, Musial J, Kloczewiak M, Guzzo J, Berman I, Niewiarowski S.

Stimulated platelets release at least two antiheparin proteins: platelet factor 4
(PF4) and low affinity platelet factor 4 (LA-PF4) from which beta-thromboglobulin
(beta TG) is derived. We have found previously marked elevation of LA-PF4/beta TG
antigen in platelet poor plasma of patients with chronic renal failure, whereas
levels of PF4 remained normal. Therefore, we examined the role of the kidneys in 
the metabolic clearance of LA-PF4/beta TG and PF4. The supernates of aggregates
of thrombin-stimulated human platelets were injected into sham operated control
rats, nephrectomized rats, and into rats with acute ureteral ligation. The
disappearance of human LA-PF4/beta TG antigen and PF4 in rat plasma determined by
specific radioimmunoassays followed biphasic exponential curves. The half-lives
(t1/2) for the fast and slow components of LA-PF4 in control rats were 6.4 and
68.4 min. Nephrectomy significantly increased these times to 9.7 and 144 min,
while ureteral ligation resulted in no significant change. Comparison of the
level of LA-PF4/beta TG antigen and of creatinine in aorta and in renal vein
showed 25%-30% extraction of these compounds by the kidney. Less than 0.1% of the
total LA-PF4 antigen injected was recovered in the urine of control rats. In
contrast to these results, the clearance of PF4 was not affected by
nephrectomy.IN CONCLUSION: (1) functional renal tissue is necessary for normal
clearance of LA-PF4/beta TG, but renal excretion does not play a major role in
its elimination suggesting that the protein is catabolized by the kidney; and (2)
catabolic clearance of PF4 does not depend on functioning kidney tissue.

PMID: 6160892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2040. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Feb;63(2):175-82.

Juvenile kyphosis: histological and histochemical studies.

Ippolito E, Ponseti IV.

Histological and histochemical studies of the spine of a sixteen-year-old boy
with juvenile kyphosis who was killed in an automobile accident showed abnormal
cartilage in extensive areas of the vertebral and growth plates of the involved
vertebrae. In these areas the cartilage matrix was loose, strongly positive when 
stained with alcian blue and weakly positive to periodic acid-Schiff, and it
contained numerous chondrocytes. Some chondrocytes were irregularly shaped and
others were in clusters. Vertebral bone growth was stunted under the areas of
abnormal vertebral and growth plates. The ossification in the ring apophyses was 
irregular in areas of abnormal cartilage plate, but necrotic bone was not seen.
Schmorl nodes had formed where areas of abnormal cartilage plate adjoining the
nucleus pulposus had collapsed, allowing the disc material to herniate into the
vertebral body.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The defective vertebral-bone formation in
juvenile kyphosis appears to result from abnormal vertebral and growth-plate
cartilage. The kyphosis and presumably also the cartilage abnormality can be
improved during the florid stage of the disease by decreasing the postural load
on the anterior part of the vertebrae with the use of a proper brace.

PMID: 7462274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2041. Acta Physiol Acad Sci Hung. 1981;57(1):9-17.

Sodium and water transport in frog skin: effect of indomethacin.

Bartha J, Hably C.

The transepithelial transport of sodium, rubidium and water was studied in the
frog skin in the presence of the cyclic endoperoxidase inhibitor indomethacin.
Sodium transport was studied by measuring short circuit current and by 24Na
radioactive isotope method; water transport was examined using the frog skin sac 
technique. Indomethacin produced the following changes. 1. The transepithelial
potential difference and the intensity of short circuit current were decreased,
while the resistance and conductance of the skin remained unaltered. 2. Passive
transepithelial sodium transport from the inner to the outer side was enhanced.
3. Neither osmotic water transport nor passive rubidium transport were
changed.CONCLUSIONS: a) Indomethacin causes a selective increase of sodium
permeability in the frog skin; b) The present results are in agreement with the
view that the indomethacin may influence the rate of sodium transport in some
tissues.

PMID: 7282378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2042. Anesth Analg (Paris). 1981;38(5-6):235-41.

[Comparative analgesic kinetics of fentanyl and droperidol-fentanyl association
(author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Bertrand JC, Conil JM, Lareng L, Gout R, Cros J.

To specify pharmacological interferences between droperidol and fentanyl an
experimental study was carried out on mice. The analgesic kinetic was studied
after the administration of the two drugs in a concentration ratio between 25/1
and 150/1.RESULTS: Fentanyl is a potent analgesic with a short time effect. It
has very good correlations between dose effect and time effect. Droperidol does
not have a analgesic effect. The behaviour of the two drugs depends on the way
they are administered, either simultaneously or consecutively: simultaneous
administration of the two drugs increases the level and duration of analgesia:
nalaxone reverses analgesia, a fentanyl injection given 5 minutes before a
droperidol injection produces the same analgesia as fentanyl alone, a droperidol 
injection given 5 minutes before a fentanyl injection induces a level of
analgesia lower than fentanyl alone. Droperidol appears to reverse the fentanyl
analgesia.

PMID: 7270939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2043. Anesth Analg (Paris). 1981;38(11-12):655-8.

[Curing trial of complicated oncologic pain by D-phenylalanine (author's
transl)].

[Article in French]

Donzelle G, Bernard L, Deumier R, Lacome M, Barre M, Lanier M, Mourtada MB.

Aim of investigations: Very often, chronic pain treatments used for the
management of terminal ill cancer patients do not prevent acute or incident pain 
from coming up. For twenty months D-phenylalanine (DPA), an enkephalinase
inhibitor, has been investigated in order to forestall this pain.METHODS: Nine
caucasian patients, three males and six females, between forty-nine and
seventy-eight, were selected for this trial after informed consent. They were all
undergoing severe incident pains related to complications (scabies, osteoporosis,
painful cough or colic, Charley-Horse, RX-necrosis of skin or mucous membranes,
etc) in spite of having their chronic pain component cured: phanol-rhizotomy: two
cases, neuro-adrenolysis by alcohol: four cases, Brampton mixture: three cases.
They were administered DPA, 250 mg three times a day for fifteen days, followed
by a ten days pause, resumption and so on.
RESULTS: Seven patients out of nine were alleviated and they never claimed for
more or other analgesics until they died. Four of them got very good ataraxia
during the same time (survival mean x = 99,33 days). No side effect was reported,
even in patients taking Brampton mixture.
CONCLUSIONS: DPA seems a useful drug to prevent acute or incident pain in
malignant diseases. Our data point out the consequences the enkephalinases
inhibitors will take up for the cure of intractable cancer pain.

PMID: 7114516  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2044. Ann Otolaryngol Chir Cervicofac. 1981;98(6):259-64.

[Temporomandibular ankylosis in the child. Two cases. (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Poncet E, Roulleau P, Peynègre R, Receveur M, Pichancourt P, Dupuch C.

About 2 child's temporo mandibular ankylosis cases, authors explains differents
questions of this affection. --ETIOLOGY: overshadows by trauma and infections.
--Physiological. --
THERAPY: Mechanotherapy after surgery is as important as surgical operation. Two 
surgical attitudes are possible: --interposition, --or recovery of a correct
ramus mandibulae height with a prosthetic condyle allowing a maxima opening after
surgical operation with a block. Authors lay stress on necessity of an early
surgical operation in order to avoid ankylosis repercussion on facial
developpment.

PMID: 7332189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2045. Arzneimittelforschung. 1981;31(3a):601-3.

Praziquantel in the treatment of the hepatosplenic form of Schistosomiasis
mansoni.

da Silva LC, Sette H Jr, Christo CH, Sáez-Alquezar A, Carneiro CR, Lacet CM,
Ohtsuki N, Raia S.

40 patients with the hepatosplenic form of schistosomiasis mansoni were selected 
for this study. Among 29 patients submitted to oral endoscopy there were 28 in
whom oesophageal varices were demonstrated and 20 out of 21 patients who
presented gastrointestinal haemorrhage had been operated on. All patients
received a single oral dose of 40 mg/kg b.w. of
2-cyclohexylcarbonyl-1,2,3,6,7,11b-hexahydro-4H-pyrazino[2,1-a]isoquinolin-4-one 
(praziquantel, EMBAY 8440, Biltricide). Unwanted side effects were recorded when 
spontaneously reported. These were rather frequent but generally mild and
disappeared within hours without additional medication. Comprehensive laboratory 
tests as well as ECG and EEG dit not show any significant changes. 27 patients
were parasitologically followed up for 3-6 months; 26 of them were egg-negative. 
In the 18 patients who could be followed up for more than 6 months, the cure rate
was 94.4%.CONCLUSION: praziquantel can be safely given also to patients with
hepatosplenic complications.

PMID: 7195256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2046. Biol Neonate. 1981;40(1-2):9-20.

Effect of cooling on the glucoregulation of anaesthetized and non-anaesthetized
newborn dogs.

Hetenyi G Jr, Cowan JS.

When newborn dogs 2-14 days of age, anaesthetized with Nembutal, were cooled to
30 degrees C body core temperature, their rate of CO2 production (QCO2) decreased
as predicted by van't Hoff's law, but the rates of hepatic glucose production and
overall glucose utilization were decreased to a lesser degree, indicating an
increase in the percentage contribution of plasma glucose to the overall energy
turnover. In different litters of pups cooled to 32 degrees C, QCO2 and the rate 
of glucose production and utilization were decreased as predicted by van't Hoff's
law. The metabolic clearance rate of glucose was decreased by cooling in all
pups. These changes were wholly or partially reversible upon rewarming. Because
of the approximate parallelity in the changes in the rates of production and
utilization of glucose, no consistent change in blood glucose was observed during
cooling. When non-anaesthetized pups less than 6 days old were exposed to cold
until their core temperature was decreased to 32 degrees C QCO2 increased
transiently during cooling. A small and transient elevation in plasma glucose
concentration was observed due to a small increase in hepatic glucose production.
Older pups fell into two categories: those which were able to maintain their body
temperature by increasing their metabolic rate did not react with any change in
their rates of glucose production and utilization. On the other hand pups which, 
during cooling, failed to raise their metabolic rate became hyperglycaemic
because of an increased rate of glucose production and a decrease in glucose
clearance.IN CONCLUSION: in anaesthetized pups QCO2 and the rates of hepatic
glucose production and utilization follow approximately van't Hoff's law,
indicating the absence of significant regulatory responses. Non-anaesthetized
pups, if they are able to maintain their body temperature during cooling by an
increase of their metabolic rate, show no significant changes in glucose
production and utilization. Hyperglycaemia developed only in those pups which
failed to increase their metabolic rate and consequently became severely
hypothermic. In no case did hypothermia lead to hypoglycaemia.

PMID: 6793097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2047. Folia Haematol Int Mag Klin Morphol Blutforsch. 1981;108(3):439-46.

[Diffusion in fibrin by simultaneous fibrinolysis].

[Article in German]

Senf L.

The distribution kinetics of radioactive 51Cr-EDTA between human plasma and a
fibrin coagulation dissolving under the influence of different concentrations of 
streptokinase is measured by scanning the diffusion tubes point by point.RESULTS:
1. The dissolving rate of the coagulum is temporally constant in great
concentrations of streptokinase. 2. The faster the coagulation dissolves, the
smaller will be the amount of 51Cr-EDTA diffusing into the coagulum. The analysis
of these findings and further calculations confirm the assumption made previously
that the diffusion of streptokinase or streptokinase-activator complexes into the
coagulum seems to play no essential role in the dissolving rate of the coagulum
observed clinically and experimentally.

PMID: 6169606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2048. G Ital Cardiol. 1981;11(12):1923-34.

[Recent myocardial infarction: incidence of the ventricular arrhythmias and
correlations with some ecgraphic and hemodynamic parameters at rest and during
exercise (author's transl)].

[Article in Italian]

Ignone G, Giordano A, Giannuzzi P, Galdangelo F, Albonico B, Salvi R, Tavazzi L.

To assess incidence of ventricular premature beats (VPB) and correlate ECGraphic 
and hemodynamic data of parameters at rest and during exercise, 176 oligo or
asymptomatic patients (167 males and 9 females) with recent myocardial infarction
(RMI) (20-60 days after AMI) underwent a maximal symptom limited exercise test in
supine position during hemodynamic monitoring (Swan-Ganz cath. 7F placed in
pulmonary artery) without medical therapy. During the following 24 hours the
patients underwent a continuous ambulatory ECG. 71 patients (40%) had no VPB
(class 0), 56 patients (32%) had less than 1 VPB/hour (class 1), 35 patients
(20%) had less than 6 VPB/minute and less than 30 VPB/hour (class 2) and 14
patients (8%) had greater than 6 VPB/minute and greater than 30 VPB/hour (class
3). Patients with VPB were then divided into qualitative classes: class A: 57
patients (54%) with isolated and unifocal VPB; class B: 38 patients (36%) with
polifocal, bigeminal and paired VPB; class C: 10 patients (10%) with R on T or
consecutive beats (3 or more). 28% of the patients had complex VPB (class B and
C). 20% of all the patients (36/176) had VPB during exercise, 8 patients had VPB 
only during exercise, increasing the percentage of arrhythmias from 60% to 64%.
VPB were more frequent and complex in patients with inferior or anterior +
inferior MI than in patients with anterior MI and patients aged more than 60.
Patients with complex VPB had cardiac volume index higher (p less than 0.05) than
patients without VPB or with isolated VPB. Patients of different classes showed
work capacity of 75-80 watts with 75-80% of maximal theoretic heart rate. Infarct
size (NQ) was not correlated with number of VPB. Arrhythmias were slightly more
frequent in patients with exercise ST depression (66%) than in patients without
exercise ST depression (57%) (NS). No significant difference was found between ST
elevation at rest and during exercise and VPB. PWP was, on the average, normal at
rest (10 mmHg in the different classes) and slightly pathological during exercise
with no differences between patients without VPB (class 0 = 21.7 mmHg) and
patients with VPB (class 1 = 22.4 mmHg, Class 2 = 24.4 mmHg, Class 3 = 20.8
mmHg).IN CONCLUSION: in oligo or asymptomatic patients with RMI: a) exercise
slightly increased the sensitivity of continuous ambulatory ECG to reveal VPB b) 
poor correlations were found between VPB and ECGraphic and hemodynamic parameters
both at rest and during exercise.

PMID: 6179813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2049. Int J Obes. 1981;5(3):221-6.

Evaluation of the safety of very-low-calorie diets in the treatment of severely
obese patients in a metabolic ward.

Contaldo F, Di Biase G, Fischetti A, Mancini M.

Nitrogen balance has been measured in 25 (18 f, 7m) obese non-diabetic patients
submitted for four weeks to different versions of very-low-calorie diets (VLCD). 
Patients were divided into four groups and treated as follows: Gp 1 (6f, 4m) by
80 kcal (0.34 MJ) VLCD (17 g protein [= 2.6 g N], tr CHO and fat); Gp 2 (4f, 1m) 
by 180 kcal (0.76 MJ) VLCD (40 g protein [= 6.4 g N], 2 fat, tr CHO); Gp 3 (4f,
1m) by 80/180 kcal (0.34/0.76 MJ) VLCD (80 kcal during the 1st and 2nd week and
180 kcal during the 3rd and 4th week with the same nutrients as Gps and 1 and 2, 
respectively). Gps 1-3 received VLCD which essentially contained only protein. Gp
4 (4f, 1m) was treated by a 'mixed' VLCD containing protein and CHO (80 kcal, as 
in Gp 1 during the 1st and 2nd week; and 180 kcal, 17 g protein + 25.5 g CHO
during the 3rd and 4th week of treatment). Weight loss was similar in Gps 1, 3
and 4 (-11 kg) and lower (-8 kg) in Gp 3. Mean daily nitrogen loss was lower in
Gp 2 and 3 (-3.2 and -2.9 g N/day respectively). From the 3rd week of treatment
nitrogen loss was reduced in Gps 1 and 2 and virtually absent in Gp 3. In Gp 4
nitrogen loss was persistently high (4.3-5.8 g N/day) during the whole period of 
observation.IN CONCLUSION: at a very low energy intake of below 200 kcal (0.84
MJ)/day dietary substitution of protein with carbohydrates does not ameliorate
the nitrogen balance.

PMID: 7275458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2050. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jan;63(1):71-8.

Twelfth thoracic-first lumbar vertebral mechanical stability of fractures after
Harrington-rod instrumentation.

Purcell GA, Markolf KL, Dawson EG.

Thirteen fresh cadaver spinal segments (fifth thoracic to fifth lumbar vertebra) 
with a posterior ligamentous defect at the twelfth thoracic-first lumbar level
were tested to failure in flexion, creating an unstable fracture at the twelfth
thoracic and first lumbar vertebrae. The fractured spines were then instrumented 
with Harrington distraction rods and retested. Spines instrumented at the
eleventh thoracic to second lumbar vertebrae were not significantly stronger than
uninstrumented specimens (with a posterior ligamentous defect). Repositioning the
upper hook from the eleventh to the tenth thoracic vertebra increased the failure
moment by an average of 36 per cent. Instrumentation of the spine at either level
protected the spinal column against distraction at the fracture site until a
threshold movement was reached. Moving the upper hook from the eleventh up to the
tenth thoracic vertebra increased the threshold moment by an average of 65 per
cent. Our recommended hook placement at the tenth thoracic and second lumbar
vertebrae tends to reduce tilting of the upper vertebra, changing the mode of
failure from slip-out of the upper hook (with partial laminar fracture) to total 
laminar fracture.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The presence of internal fixation rods in
itself does not make the unstable fractured spine stronger in a flexion mode. The
level of hook placement above and below the fracture is important in determining 
with bending strength of the instrumented spine. When the use of Harrington
distraction rods is contemplated for internally stabilizing a fractured spine, a 
specific level of hook placement, three laminae above and two laminae below the
point of instability, is recommended. This configuration allows the
instrumentation to maintain increased spinal stability in a flexion mode by
reducing the tendency for the upper hooks to "back out" and lose their hold
secondary to vertebral tilting.

PMID: 7451528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2051. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jan;63(1):62-70.

Stability of the upper lumbar spine following progressive disruptions and the
application of individual internal and external fixation devices.

Nagel DA, Koogle TA, Piziali RL, Perkash I.

Five fresh human cadavera were tested to determine range-of-motion measurements
at the interspace of the first and second lumbar vertebrae after progressive
disruption of the joint followed by internal and external stabilization. The
disruption progressed from posterior to anterior, leaving the anterior
longitudinal ligament and anterior part of the annulus fibrosus intact.
Flexion-extension range of motion was most sensitive to progressive disruptions
and was significant following disruption of the facets. The Taylor-Knight brace
was effective for limiting lateral motion, fair for limiting flexion-extension,
and not effective for rotation. The three-point hyperextension brace was fairly
effective for flexion-extension only. The body cast was effective in limiting all
motions. Wire loops partially cut through the spinous processes in all cases with
extreme flexion. Harrington distraction rods were effective in limiting motion if
under proper tension, but they dislodged in three of the five specimens.CLINICAL 
RELEVANCE: Data from this study show that flexion of the second lumbar vertebra
on the first of 20 degrees or a lateral bend of 10 degrees seen on a routine
roentgenogram without vertebral fracture indicates that all posterior ligaments
and at least part of the annulus fibrosus must be disrupted. Because internal
fixation failed on occasion, we strongly urge the use of external fixation and
careful mobilization of the patient to prevent flexion and rotation if internal
stabilization is used for disruptions of the upper lumbar spine. The body cast
was the most effective in limiting motion of the external fixation devices
tested.

PMID: 7451527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2052. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jan;63(1):53-62.

Arterial vascularization of the cauda equina.

Parke WW, Gammell K, Rothman RH.

Vascular injection of eleven perinates revealed that each lumbosacral
spinal-nerve root received its intrinsic blood supply from both distal and
proximal radicular arteries through which the blood flowed toward a mutual
anastomosis in the proximal one-third of the root. Segmental arteries supplied
the distal vessels while their proximal equivalents received blood from their
respective anterior or dorsolateral spinal arteries, which derived their flow
from the large, irregularly located medullary arteries.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The
region of relative hypovascularity formed below the conus by the combined areas
of anastomoses in the cauda equina may provide an anatomical rationale for the
suspected neuroischemic manifestations concurrent with degenerative changes in
the lumbar spine.

PMID: 7005240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2053. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1981 Jan;63(1):120-30.

Effect of intra-articular corticosteroid on the meniscus. A histological and
histochemical study in rabbit knees.

Ishikawa K.

The histological and histochemical changes in the meniscus of the adult rabbit
were investigated after eight weekly intra-articular injections of prednisolone
acetate. Light microscopic changes included decreased intensity of staining with 
either safranin O or toluidine blue O, hypocellularity, fibrillation, and tearing
of the meniscus. Transmission electron-microscopic examination demonstrated a
marked decrease of intracytoplasmic organelles and immature collagen fibrils,
separation and deformation of collagen fibers, and the loss of safranin
O-positive stellate granules in the pericellular space and between collagen
fibers.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this study, although it was done in
rabbits, demonstrate the possible deleterious effects of repeated intra-articular
injections of corticosteroid on the human meniscus.

PMID: 6161134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2054. J Immunol Methods. 1981;44(2):235-9.

Measurement of nanogram concentrations of IgG by mixed hemadsorption.

Chinen Y, Holland M, Gatti RA.

We have modified the mixed hemadsorption technique so as to minimize the
non-specific adsorption of indicator cells. This is accomplished by: (1)
introducing fetal calf serum at several crucial steps in the procedure, and (2)
standardizing the selection of high-power fields to be counted so as to avoid
erratic adherence patterns which occur around the well rim. Using these
adjustments, IgG concentrations in the 12.5--400 ng/ml range can be measured
accurately.SAMPLE SIZE: 2 microliter. Test time: 4 h. No radioisotope is
required.

PMID: 7024417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2055. J Nutr. 1981 Jan;111(1):154-65.

Protein and fat metabolism in rats during repletion with total parenteral
nutrition (TPN).

Stein TP, Buzby GP, Leskiw MJ, Giandomenico AR, Mullen JL.

We investigated the effect of non-protein calorie source on the repletion by
total parenteral nutrition (TPN) of protein-depleted rats. Rats were depleted by 
feeding them a protein free diet for 4 weeks. Control (non-depleted) and depleted
rats were given one of three isocaloric, isonitrogenous TPN regimens for 6 days. 
They differed in the proportion of non-protein calories given as glucose and fat:
diet 1, 100% glucose; diet 2, 75% glucose, 25% fat; and diet 3, 100% fat. The
liver, skeletal muscle and whole body protein synthesis and break-down rates were
measured by using [15N]glycine as a tracer. The fatty acid distribution in the
liver was measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.RESULTS: (a) Omission 
of fat leads to a decrease in the fraction of linoleate in the liver. (b) Giving 
all the non-protein calories as a fat emulsion causes fatty acid accumulation in 
the liver and a significant increase in the liver protein fractional synthesis
rate in the control rats and killed about half the depleted rats. (c) For TPN
regimens 1 and 2 both the muscle and whole body synthesis rates were increased
during repletion. (d) Of the three TPN regimens, the second one which contained
both fat and glucose was superior to the other two.

PMID: 6778978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2056. Metabolism. 1981 Jan;30(1):27-35.

Lipid metabolism in pregnancy. VIII. Effects of dietary fat versus carbohydrate
on lipoprotein and hepatic lipids and tissue triglyceride lipases.

Childs MT, Tollefson J, Knopp RH, Bowden DA.

We have asked, is hypertriglyceridemia in the fed state in pregnancy due to
intolerance to exogenous fat, accumulation of endogenous triglycerides, or
accumulation of remnants of d < 1.006 lipoprotein metabolism? To answer these
questions, we fed fat-free diets high in starch or sucrose, or diets containing
fat or fat plus cholesterol to pregnant and nonpregnant rats for 12 days until
gestational day 21 (term = 22 days). Blood was obtained 0, 4, or 8 hr after
removal of food from the cages. Lipid concentrations were determined in
chylomicrons and very low, low, and high density lipoproteins.
Hypertriglyceridemia in pregnancy exists on both starch and sucrose containing
fat-free diets and is exaggerated 4 and 8 hr after food is removed from the cage.
The triglyceride rise occurs in d < 1.006 lipoproteins. With fat feeding,
chylomicron triglyceride concentrations are not significantly elevated in
pregnant rats, 0 or 8 hr postabsorptively despite greater food intake in
pregnancy. In contrast, very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglyceride
concentrations are elevated at all times following fat feeding in pregnant
compared to nonpregnant animals. A significant contribution of lipoprotein
remnants to the triglyceride rise in d < 1.006 lipoproteins seems unlikely since 
an isolated increase in VLDL cholesterol is not observed. No statistically
significant accumulation of hepatic triglycerides occurs on any diet in
pregnancy. Diet induced shifts in adipose tissue and muscle lipoprotein lipase
activity are exaggerated in pregnancy while hepatic lipase is unaffected. Fetal
weight is similar on all diets except sucrose where weight is
reduced.CONCLUSIONS: Hypertriglyceridemia in fed pregnant rats is due to an
increase in endogenous triglycerides. Remnant lipid accumulation does not appear 
to contribute to the endogenous hypertriglyceridemia. There is no intolerance to 
exogenous (dietary) fat. The results are compatible with an unimpaired delivery
of exogenous fat to fat oxidizing tissues thereby maximizing glucose availability
for fetal growth.

PMID: 7464553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2057. Nephron. 1981;29(5-6):258-64.

Effect of antitubular basement membrane and brush border antibodies on
p-aminohippurate transport in kidney.

Wedeen RP, Batuman V, Sobel H.

The effect of antiproximal tubule basement membrane (TBM) and brush border (BB)
antibodies on p-aminohippurate (PAH) transport was evaluated in a rat model of
immunologically mediated interstitial nephritis. Immunized rats developed
anti-TBM antibody titers ranging from 1 to 3,072 with continuous linear IgG and
interrupted C3 deposits in the TBM. Circulating anti-BB antibodies were detected 
in half of the immunized rats in titers ranging from 1 to 128. Heavy IgG
deposition was present in the BB when circulating anti-BB antibody titers
exceeded eight and proteinuria was present. When anti-TBM antibody titers were
1,024 or greater the slice-to-medium PAH concentration ratio (S/M) was
significantly reduced (p less than 0.001). Combined immunofluorescent microscopy 
and section freeze-dry autoradiography revealed normal cellular distribution of
PAH-3H in all proximal tubules except in rat microscopic foci of interstitial
nephritis in which concentrative transport was absent. However, luminal secretion
of PAH-3H was strikingly reduced in tubules with heavy IgG BB deposits. 3-hour
PAH secretion in vivo fell significantly in rats with circulating and tissue
anti-BB antibodies. Antibody inhibition of PAH transport appeared to be
independent of morphologic damage.SUMMARY: Anti-TBM antibodies were associated
with decreased slice uptake of PAH-3H while anti-BB antibodies were associated
with decreased luminal PAH secretion in vitro and in vivo.

PMID: 6459535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2058. Neurol Neurochir Pol. 1981 Jan-Feb;15(1):49-52.

[Destruction of Forel's field in the surgical treatment of epilepsy. Preliminary 
report].

[Article in Polish]

Bidziński J, Ostrowski K.

Stereoencephalotomy remains often the only therapeutic method in severe cases of 
drug-resistant epilepsy in which it is not possible to use the classic resection 
methods. In the light of literature data we chose Forel's field as the site for
producing stereotaxic lesions since it is the most strategically situated site in
the pathways of propagation of epileptic seizures.SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: we used
Leksell's stereotaxic apparatus for the operations. The contrast medium for
filling the ventricular system was Dimer X. The parameters used in accordance
with Jinnnai were calculated from the intercommissural line. The clinical and
electrophysiological features of these cases are reported. Eleven patients were
operated upon who could not be qualified for other surgical treatment methods
because of generalized EEG changes. The main criterion accepted for qualification
of patients by us were frequent seizures (at least 1 daily) despite systematic
treatment conducted under control of serum drug levels. The indication for
selecting the side of the operation was preponderance of EEG changes or presence 
of any lateralizing signs in the seizures. The duration of follow-up sufficient
for evaluating the effectiveness of the operation was obtained in 7 patients. The
following results were achieved: very good in 1 case, good in 3, improvement in 2
and poor in 1. In the light of these preliminary observations we consider that
unilateral destruction of Forel's field is an operation indicated in severe
generalized seizures, especially in the primary generalized form.

PMID: 7019744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2059. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1981 Jan;55(1):71-83.

[A study on the mechanical properties of bone cement (methylmethacrylate) and its
strength alteration in vivo (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kon H.

Bone cement (Methylmethacrylate) is now extensively used for the fixation of
various endoprostheses in orthopaedic surgery. Although considerable number of
works have been accumulated on the use of this material, relatively little is
known about its basic characteristics such as inherent physical properties and
the strength alteration in vivo. In recent years, loosening of the prosthesis has
become one of the major problems, jeopardizing the use of the prosthesis in
conjunction with the bone cement. The aim of this study is to investigate the
mechanical properties of the commonly available bone cements and, particularly,
to see any chronological deterioration of the material in vivo.METHODS: 1. For
the study of the mechanical properties, dumbbell-shaped test pieces were made of 
three different types of commercially available bone cement (Surgical Simplex,
CMW and Palacos R) and tested under tension load using Shimazu Autograph in a
temperature and moisture controlled room (Experiment I). 2. The same test pieces 
(Surgical Simplex and CMW) were imbedded in the paravertebral muscle of rabbits
for one, six and sixteen months and, then, tested in the same fashion as in
Experiment I (Experiment II). 3. The fracture surface of the test piece after the
tension load testing was examined under a scanning electron-microscope to find
any changes before and after the imbedding (Experiment III).
RESULTS: 1. The bone cement showed a viscoelastic behavior under the tension load
in vitro. 2. The modulus of elasticity was the smallest in Palacos R which showed
the greatest amount of viscoelastic deformation in vitro. 3. The longer was the
imbedded period, the weaker was the tensile strength. The amount of viscoelastic 
deformation tended to decrease with time, which resulted in the decrease of the
total amount of deformation. The modulus of elasticity was the smallest in the
sixteen week group in both Surgical Simplex and CMW. 4. The scanning
electromicroscopic studies failed to reveal any significant changes on the
fracture surface after the imbedding.
CONCLUSION: In view of this considerable strength alteration of the bone cement
in vivo, the author considers this would be an important factor leading the
prosthesis into loosening other than the hitherto proposed various factors such
as chemical damage of the bone by the monomer, thermal bone necrosis by the
polymerization heat and fatigue fracture of the bone adjacent to the bone cement.
While the improved technique in the use of the bone cement is mandatory, the
author stressed the importance of further research into the better material or
method for the interface between the bone and the prosthesis.

PMID: 7276662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2060. Reproduccion. 1981 Jan-Mar;5(1):1-17.

Reconstructive microsurgery of the fallopian tube with the carbon dioxide laser -
procedures and preliminary results.

Bellina JH.

In 1974 the carbon dioxide laser was adapted to the operating microscope for
reconstructive pelvic surgery. A protocol was designed to test the efficacy of
this surgical modality and a new study begun. Complete documentation of
laparoscopic findings, surgical technique, and pre- and post-operative
hysterosalpingograms are kept on videotape. One hundred cases will be entered
into this study. Patency and pregnancy failures will be compared with patency and
pregnancy successes to determine, if possible, the reasons for failure. In this
paper detailed descriptions of the surgical techniques employed in the first 61
cases are presented. PRELIMINARY RESULTS in terms of patency and pregnancy
experience to date are reported.PRELIMINARY RESULTS: Eighty-two couples have been
evaluated at the Reproductive Biology Unit. Sixty-one cases have undergone
fertility enhancement laser microsurgery and/or interim medical management prior 
to surgery for infertility. Bilateral patency or patency of the only existing
fallopian tube was demonstrated post-treatment in 93% or 57 of the cases.
Eliminating those cases who are not at risk of pregnancy due to elective
contraception or medical prohibition during Danocrine therapy (28), conception
has occurred in 10 of 33 patients. This represents approximately one of every
three patients at risk. Considering the limited exposure to pregnancy, these
results are very encouraging.

PMID: 6788620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2061. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1981;67:183-5.

Sequential scintigraphy after total gastrectomy and gastric replacement.

Sonntag A, Schlag P, Herfarth C.

In 24 patients with a substitute stomach according to Hunt-Lawrence-Rodino with
additional jejunal plication functional scintigraphic investigations of emptying 
were performed.RESULTS: 1. the jejunal pouch proved to be a sufficient reservoir 
in 22 patients. 2. the emptying was continuous in the majority but delayed in all
cases. 3. esophageal reflux was absent in all cases under physiological
conditions, due to the additional jejunal plication.

PMID: 6941404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2062. Urol Int. 1981;36(6):346-52.

[Progress in urolithiasis research. Report and comments on the Urolithiasis
Symposium 1981, Bonn (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Asper R.

EPIDEMIOLOGY: The annual incidence of urolithiasis in the population is at least 
0.1%. In rural areas, there are remarkably less actual stone formers than in
urban districts, and also vegetarians show less stone diseases. Calcium carbonate
as a urinary calculus compound is not in the strict sense impossible, but often
an artifact. About 10% of homozygotic cystinuria patients never suffer an actual 
stone disease.
PATHOGENESIS: It is obvious that for stone formation urinary supersaturation
alone is not sufficient. Besides the well-known inhibitors like citrate,
magnesium and pyrophosphate there have to be other important urinary
constituents. Risk factors are high protein or glucose intakes and, in general,
hyperalimentation, simply because any food has to be deplenished somehow and
increases the urine concentration. A special cause may be found in alterations of
the renal tubuli. Diagnostic: For the quite difficult oxalate analysis, an
enzymatic test is commercially available. Up to now, the most important
analytical task in urolithiasis is still the correct analysis of urinary calculi.
Qualitative chemical analysis shows up to 50% erroneous results, leading to false
therapies. To determine the calculus compounds the best appropriate method is by 
far the X-ray diffraction analysis.
THERAPY: The results with adsorption medicines are contradictory. Satisfactory
therapies are given for uricosuria with allopurinol and for oxaluria with
pyridoxine. A new therapy for cystinuria may be the combined application of
ascorbic acid and sodium hydrogen carbonate.

PMID: 7324300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2063. Z Exp Chir. 1981;14(4):166-74.

[Organ cultures from isolated pancreatic islets of rats and their transplantation
into streptozotocin-diabetic rats].

[Article in German]

Kojima Y, Yamazaki G, Nakagawara G, Miyazaki I.

Islets of Langerhans were isolated from the adult wistar rat by means of the
collagenase method and cultivated in an incubator at a temperature of 37 degree
Celsius and with a mixture of 95% air and 5% CO2. With that each two of the
islets were put into every drill hole of multi-dish trays. 1 ml Eagle medium
modified by Dulbecco with admixtures of 20% foetal calf serum, 100 microgram/ml
Streptomycin and 100 u/ml Penicillin G was the nutrient medium. This medium was
exchanged every third day and the released insulin quantity was measured by a
radio immunologic test (Phadebas insulin test).RESULTS: 1. The insulin quantity
in the nutrient medium runs to 1097 to 1434 microu/ml two islets if a change took
place every third day during an 80 days duration of the culture. 2. The
cultivated islets had a demonstrable reactivity of the insulin secretion to
glucose and glucagon. 3. Diabetic rats with transplants of nearly 400 cultivated 
islets recover from diabetic state within one week after transplantation and keep
healthy for 8 weeks.

PMID: 6792805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2064. Zentralbl Chir. 1981;106(13):882-95.

[Epidemiology of thoracic injuries (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Franke A, Franke K.

The following details on thoracic traumata can be given as a survey: Occurrence: 
6 to 10% of all injuries treated in hospitals (male: female - 3:1); about 8% open
injuries (in Harlem N.Y: 86%); 80% occur as a polytrauma, 90% are combined with
fractures. Mortality: 6 to 15% of all thoracic traumata and 20 to 30% of severe
ones.ETIOLOGY: 60 to 70% traffic accidents, 15 to 20% during work, 15 to 20% at
home, 2% sports accidents. Consecutive injuries of thoracic traumata are: Haemato
- and/or Pneumothorax 35%, Lung contusion 20%, Heart concussion/contusion 15%,
Rupture of diaphragm 4%, Aortic disruption 2%, Bronchus rupture 1%.

PMID: 7282149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2065. Zentralbl Chir. 1981;106(5):299-302.

[Urgent pericardiectomy, 15 cases (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Nguyen DH, Nguyen KD, Le HH.

15 cases of pericarditis with tamponade operated as emergency cases in Cho Ray
Hospital from November 1976 to January 1979 are dealt with. In these 15 cases, 11
were urgently treated with pericardiectomy, 3 cases with pericardiotomy and one
case with repeated pericardial punctures. From these latters pericardiectomy had 
to be performed in one case later because of constrictive pericarditis and
evolutive cardiac failure.ETIOLOGY: Pericardial and metastatic tumour 5,
suppurative pericarditis 7, Haemopericard after closed chest trauma 1, rheumatic 
fever 1, tuberculosis 1.
RESULTS: 11 patients showed good results, 3 patients died of disseminated lesions
of cancer, 1 patient with suppurative pericarditis died a few days after the
operation of respiratory insufficiency. A conservative operation seems to be
impossible for radically curing the disease and many post-operative complications
may occur.

PMID: 7223115  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2066. Aesthetic Plast Surg. 1980 Dec;4(1):1-45. doi: 10.1007/BF01575200.

The history of rhytidectomy.

González-Ulloa M.

Author information: 
, Mexico City, Mexico.

CONCLUSION: Between Cantrell [23] and Cabanès [21] in the first decade of this
century and the many practitioners of contemporary rhytidectomy, the concerns and
labors of aesthetic plastic surgeons have a familiar tone. We have inherited
their improvements and need not waste efforts which theirs have spared us in
techniques. Only if we are also the grateful heirs of their subjective scientific
and humanistic ideals can we carry forward surgical research to the goals
implicit in their pioneering-the safe and effective prolongation of youth and
retardation of aging.The evolution of aesthetic plastic surgery to its present
status as a rigorously controlled medical technique received its power from the
perennial drive of men and women to preserve the appearance of their body and
face in consonance with the vigor of their personalities and desires. We have
always known that inner psychic and spiritual changes bring about a new external 
radiance, but we are now discovering that the process also works in reverse:
Change the external appearance-restore the lost years-of a person struggling
continually against indifferent or negative social reactions, and the inner light
that has died within begins to glow once more.

PMID: 24174065  [PubMed]


2067. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Dec;62(8):1308-14.

Biomechanical analysis of the sliding characteristics of compression hip screws.

Kyle RF, Wright TM, Burstein AH.

We examined the effect of screw-plate angle on the sliding characteristics and
jamming potential of four popularly used stainless-steel and
cobalt-chromium-molybdenum compression hip screws. The actual coefficient of
sliding friction for these alloys was measured in each device. The force on the
screw required to overcome the static frictional force also was determined, by
varying the lengths of screw engaged in the barrel under conditions of static
equilibrium representing 130-degree and 150-degree screw-plate angles. For the
130-degree loading configuration, this force was significantly (p < 0.001) higher
than that required for the 150-degree loading configuration for all four screw
types. The actual coefficient of friction was relatively constant for each
material, although slight variations due to differences in design between screw
types were found. A positive correlation (p < 0.01) was seen between the apparent
coefficient of friction (the ratio of sliding force to normal force) and the
length of the screw extending from the barrel. All stainless-steel screws jammed 
in the 130-degree tests when not completely engaged in the barrel. None of the
150-degree tests produced jamming and none of the cobalt-chromium-molybdenum
screws jammed in either the 130-degree or the 150-degree test. Examination of
jammed devices by scanning electron microscopy showed galling on the superior
surface of both the screw and the barrel.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Understanding the
conditions that facilitate sliding of hip screws aids in ensuring their proper
use. The higher the nail-plate angle, the easier it is to impact the hip-fixation
device and thus allow bone impaction and stability at the fracture site. The
potential for jamming a sliding hip screw is decreased by maximum engagement of
the screw in the barrel. Differences in the material and design of sliding
hip-fixation devices have relatively little effect on the sliding characteristics
compared with the nail-plate angle and the engagement of the screw in the barrel.

PMID: 7440609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2068. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Dec;62(8):1362-9.

Anatomy of the microvasculature of the tibial diaphysis of the adult dog.

Lopez-Curto JA, Bassingthwaighte JB, Kelly PJ.

The microvasculature in the cortex and marrow of the adult canine tibial
diaphysis was filled with the silicone elastomer Microfil, the bone was
decalcified, and the water was replaced with methylsalicylate to permit
three-dimensional visualization of the microvascular arrangements. The tibial
nutrient artery was seen to supply the marrow and the cortex via parallel,
independent sets of arterioles and terminal capillary beds. No arteriolar or
capillary anastomoses were observed linking these separate beds. The major
portion of the venous drainage was found to be via small venules through the
cortex into periosteal veins. Many small venules draining the medullary
capillaries penetrated the cortex, and there were a few larger emissary veins,
including the nutrient vein. Because the marrow and cortex have separate
capillary beds in parallel, microsphere deposition should be appropriate for
estimating the regional blood flows.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this study
should be of concern to surgeons who perform whole diaphyseal bone replacements, 
as the effluent venous vessels are important in re-establishing the circulation
by microsurgical methods.

PMCID: PMC2922392
PMID: 7002933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2069. J Trauma. 1980 Dec;20(12):1038-42.

Plating of femoral shaft fractures: the Vancouver experience.

Loomer RL, Meek R, De Sommer F.

A retrospective study of 46 femoral shaft fractures treated with A.O. compression
plating by eight surgeons of varying expertise in A.O. techniques at two large
trauma hospitals was undertaken. Information was gained from hospital and office 
records, X-rays , operative summaries, and personal interview and examination.
Average followup was 3 years. There was a 24% complication rate including failure
of plates and screws, refracture after plate removal, fracture near the end of
the plates, nonunion, and infection. Average time to union was 7 months. Despite 
less than optimal surgical technique, excellent or good results were obtained in 
88% of all patients and 100% of those patients who did not have
complications.CONCLUSIONS: 1) This is an acceptable method of treating femoral
shaft fractures which are not amenable to I.M. nailing providing: the A.O.
techniques are strictly adhered to; bone grafts are used when there is loss of
bone, less than anatomic reduction and rigid internal fixation, and or
devascularized bone; the patient is followed with partial weight bearing and cast
brace if necessary until healed; plate is left in situ 1 year following union;
and 2) all surgeons using the A.O. technique should be aware of the necessity of 
anatomic reduction and rigid internal fixation, and trained in its use.

PMID: 7452747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2070. No Shinkei Geka. 1980 Dec;8(12):1145-53.

[Therapeutic embolization in the external carotid artery region (author's
transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ito J, Yokoyama M, Imamura H, Yoshida S, Washiyama K.

This paper reports our experience of therapeutic embolization in the external
carotid artery region. Therapeutic embolization was done for the purpose of
decreasing hemorrhage during operation.MATERIAL AND METHOD: Therapeutic
embolization was done in 6 cases of meningioma, 1 case of capillary hemangioma of
the cheek and one case of olfactory neuroblastoma. Catheterization was done
through the common carotid artery in adults and done through the femoral artery
in an infant. Small pieces of Gelfoam were used as emboli. Emboli, 1 X 1 X 0.5 mm
in size, were instilled with normal saline. One embolus was used in one
instillation as a rule. A larger embolus was used for occlusion of a larger
artery. Heparin was not used through entire procedure. Four illustrative cases
are presented. when a feeder of a tumor is occluded by artificial emboli, two
kinds of effect can be resulted. when emboli lodge within the tumor or in a
feeding artery distal to arterial anastomoses, blood is no longer supplied to the
tumor (embolization effect). On the other hand, when a feeding artery is occluded
by emboli at the point proximal to arterial anastomoses, blood supply to the
tumor is transiently reduced but it is soon restored through arterial anastomoses
(ligation effect). To minimize bleeding during surgery it is very important to
gain embolization effect. For this purpose small emboli should be instilled
repeatedly until embolization effect is established. Then ligation effect should 
be obtained, if necessary, by injection lower emboli. Operation was performed on 
the day following embolization in cases of meningioma. In a case of capillary
hemangioma of the cheek operation was performed three days after embolization and
in a case of olfactory neuroblastoma surgery was performed two days after
embolization. In all cases the primary purpose to minimize bleeding during
operation was achieved. No untoward side effects were encountered in this series.
The ophthalmic artery may arise from the middle meningeal artery. The vertebral
artery might be visualized through the collateral from the occipital artery. We
should pay attention to these vascular anomalies before embolization to prevent
possible catastrophe.

PMID: 7242791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2071. Pathol Res Pract. 1980 Dec;170(1-3):146-59.

[Cytophotometric analysis of nuclear DNA-content in so-called obliterating
mastopathy with epithelial hyperproliferation].

[Article in German]

Stegner HE(1), Bahnsen J, Hinz B.

Author information: 
(1)University Women's Clinic, Hamburg-Eppendorf, FRG.

INTRODUCTION: Histogenesis, microscopic appearance, and clinical significance of 
so-called "obliterating mastopathy with epithelial hyperproliferation" are
described. This focal lesion, which was recently re-evaluated by Hamperl (1975), 
may simulate scirrhous carcinoma in X-ray mammography. In histologic specimens
similarities to special types of tubular carcinomas may cause problems in
differential diagnosis. In order to gain a better insight into their behavior,
cytophotometric DNA-analysis was applied to 10 selected cases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: DNA-determination was performed on Feulgen stained
sections by means of a Leitz microspectrophotometer MPV 1. The plug technique was
used after careful focussing of cell nuclei. Intraductal and extraductal
epithelial proliferations have been analyzed in separate series.
RESULTS: In four series of extraductal pseudoinfiltration and in six series of
intraductal hyperproliferation, normoploid DNA-patterns were found. One series of
apocrine metaplasia and one of atypical intraductal proliferation were read as
borderline cases, but one case of atypical apocrine metaplasia revealed an
aneuploid DNA-pattern, thus indicating the malignant nature of the lesions.
DISCUSSION: "Obliterating mastopathy with epithelial hyperproliferation" is
regarded a high risk disease which may progress to invasive carcinoma. According 
to the gross morphologic appearance of the focal lesions, the term
"pseudoscirrhus" is proposed. Therapeutic approach depends mainly on the degree
of epithelial hyperproliferation and cellular atypia. Focal lesions should be
removed by wide excision, whereas in cases of multicentric development,
subcutaneous mastectomy and plastic augmentation is recommended.

PMID: 18788159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2072. Radiologe. 1980 Dec;20(12):602-7.

[Tomoscopy].

[Article in German]

Wenz W, Haendle J, Bockenheimer S, Neutard E, Sklebitz H, Dietz K.

Report on initial clinical experience with a new form of tomography with
fluoroscopy, called 'tomoscopy'.PRINCIPLE: Several grid controlled x-ray tubes
firmly mounted (stationary) in circular fashion -- with the foci in equidistance 
-- are fired in sequential fashion for a short exposure, which creates the
impression of tube movement mandatory in conventional tomography, by this
sequential firing of several tubes (in 1/50 second total), the mechanical tube
motion of conventional tomography can be avoided. In the image intensifier, there
is synchronous electromagnetic deflection of the image between input- and output 
screen; and a tomographic image can be seen at the output screen. This can also
be recorded on camera. This new technique allows quick fluoroscopic determination
of the ideal 'cut' and thus provides efficient tomography without slowing down
the ongoing examination; and it is a useful addition to modern radiographic
equipment with image intensification, especially when used with contrast
material. Its full future impact on diagnostic radiology can yet not be
estimated.

PMID: 7208896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2073. Fed Regist. 1980 Nov 7;45(218):73931-45.

Health Care Financing Administration--Medicare program; technical amendments on
reconsideration and appeals under the hospital insurance program. Final
regulation.

[No authors listed]

SUMMARY: This regulation places in HCFA's part of the Code of Federal Regulations
certain material formerly included in the regulations of the Social Security
Administration (SSA). Specifically, SSA's regulations about making and reviewing 
program determinations referred to certain types of determinations made in the
Medicare program. However, in its recent recodification of those regulations, SSA
deleted the references to Medicare determinations. The following amendments place
the deleted material among the HCFA regulations on making and reviewing program
determinations. In addition, for the convenience of the reader of HCFA
regulations, we are reprinting the SSA's regulations on making and reviewing
program determinations as an Appendix to the Medicare regulations on the same
subject.

PMID: 10298030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2074. Am J Cardiol. 1980 Oct;46(4):677-84.

Simultaneous anterograde fast-slow atrioventricular nodal pathway conduction
after procainamide.

Gomes JA, Kang PS, Kelen G, Khan R, El-Sherif N.

Three patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia underwent
electrophysiologic studies that included His bundle recordings, incremental
atrial and ventricular pacing and extrastimulation before and after intravenous
infusion of 500 mg of procainamide. In all three patients the tachycardia was
induced during atrial pacing or premature atrial stimulation, or both. Two of the
three patients had discontinuous atrioventricular (A-V) nodal curves with
induction of a slow-fast tachycardia during failure in anterograde fast pathway
conduction and one patient had a smooth A-V nodal curve with induction of a
slow-fast tachycardia at critical A-H interval delays. After procainamide: (1) in
all three patients atrial pacing induced A-V nodal Wenckebach periodicity (cycle 
length 300 to 400 ms) resulting in simultaneous anterograde fast and slow pathway
conduction (one atrial beat resulting in two QRS complexes) and retrograde fast
pathway conduction initiating an echo response or a slow-fast tachycardia, or
both; (2) in all three patients there was enhanced conduction and shortening of
refractoriness of the anteriograde fast pathway and depressed conduction and
lengthening of refractoriness of the retrograde fast pathway; and (3) in two
patients there was inability to sustain tachycardia because of selective block
within the retrograde fast pathway.IN CONCLUSION: (1) procainamide altered
conduction and refractoriness of the anterograde fast and slow pathways so that
simultaneous conduction could occur during atrial pacing, resulting in a double
ventricular response and a slow-fast echo or tachycardia, or both; and (2) the
differential effects of procainamide on anterograde fast and retrograde fast
pathways suggests two functional A-V nodal fast pathways, oine for anterograde
and the other for retrograde conduction.

PMID: 7416027  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2075. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 Oct;32(10):1583-90.

[A study on the significance of bromocriptine (CB-154) administration in
normoprolactinemic anovulatory women (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishimaru T, Mori H, Koh K, Imamichi S, Morisaki M, Kohno A, Yoshida K, Imamura S,
Yamabe T.

The ovulation-inducing effect of bromocriptine (CB-154) and the underlying
mechanism in the management of anovulatory infertility with normoprolactinemia
were investigated. Thirty-seven normoprolactinemic women (anovulatory cycle, 11
cases; 1st grade amenorrhea, 18; and 2nd grade amenorrhea 8) with anovulia
showing plasma prolactin levels of less than 25 ng/ml were give CB-154 daily in
doses of 2.5 mh from the second day of menstruation or withdrawal bleeding (1) to
assess the ovulatory induction rate, (2) to determine the serum PRL, LH, FSH and 
E2 levels before and during the drug administration, (3) to measure the serum PRL
concentration by TRH test prior to CB-154 medication and (4) to assess size
heterogeneity of serum PRL with the use of lyophilization.RESULTS: (1) Ovulation 
occurred in 21 of the 37 patients, of a total of 42 menstrual cycles studied, 33 
were ovulatory, indicating a high rate of repeated success. (2) There was a
significant decrease of serum PRL following administration of CB-154, and the
finding was the same in the group of women with successful ovulatory induction.
Serum LH, FSH and E2 levels did not show any significant change following CB-154 
therapy. (3) Prl concentrations were suppressed more in cases of unsuccessful
induction than those in successful induction. (4) PRL responses to TRH tended to 
be lower in cases of successful induction than those in unsuccessful cases. (5)
The Little PRL content ratio decreased after administration of CB-154, and this
data have suggested that not only the problem of immunologically measured serum
PRL levels but the qualitative problems also bear relations to the effect of this
hormone on the endocrinological environment.

PMID: 7240824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2076. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 Oct;32(10):1620-4.

The treatment of threatened premature labor by drugs.

Chimura T.

CLINICAL STUDIES: There are many reports describing the extent of uterine
excitement in vitro and clinical conditions of uterine contractions at the time
of threatened premature labor. Changes in blood levels of c-AMP, Ca and PG appear
to be the most useful parameters for uterine contraction and relaxation. 1) The
blood level of c-AMP during threatened premature labor increased when any of the 
uterine inhibitors went administered. 2) An inhibitory effect was also seen with 
intravenous administration of dibutyryl c-AMP, an analogue of c-APM. When the
inhibitory effects against threatened premature labor by various inhibitors were 
classified by their inhibitory pattern, terbutaline and dibutyryl c-AMP had the a
strongest and quickest effect, whereas ethanol and indomethacin were weaker and
slower in promoting the onset of their activities. 3) Analysis of 263 cases of
threatened premature labor treated in our department in the past 5 years
demonstrated that there are 2 phases of contraction during premature labor. They 
are the active phase and the depressed phase. The active phase is best treated
with beta 2-stimulants whereas the drug of choice for the depressed phase can be 
varied to suit the clinical situation.

PMID: 6263996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2077. Nouv Presse Med. 1980 Sep 25;9(34 Suppl):2399-403.

Effects of vasodilators on renal function in severe heart failure.

Mantle JA, Russell RO, Tauxe WN, Dustan HP, Rogers WJ, Rackley CE.

Changes in renal function associated with heart failure (HF) and the response to 
vasodilator therapy were investigated in 21 patients (pts) with ischemic heart
disease. Serial measurements of systemic arterial pressure (AP), pulmonary
arterial end diastolic pressure, cardiac index (CI) and effective renal plasma
flow (ERPF) were obtained before and after isosorbide dinitrate (ISD) or prazosin
(PZ). Baseline ERPF values measured by 131-I-orthoiodohippurate clearance
correlated well with CI (r = 83). Pts with low ERPF (< 300 ml/min) had an
increase of 20 to 80% in response to vasodilatation. This improvement in ERPF was
not dependent on an increase in the Cl. Pts on nonic ISD/PZ with systolic AP < 90
mmHg developed edema and ascites that responded to spironolactone. These data
indicate that vasodilators can significantly improve ERPF in pts with low Cl and 
suggests a specific beneficial effect on the renal vascular bed.SUMMARY: In pts
with low cardiac output HF : 1) the ERPF is reduced in proportion to the Cl; 2)
vasodilation will improve ERPF independently of the cardiac response although; 3)
persistent hypotension and vasodilation may result in a clinical picture of
secondary hyperaldosteronism.

PMID: 7422530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2078. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Sep;62(6):981-5.

Cephalothin and cefamandole penetration into bone, synovial fluid, and wound
drainage fluid.

Schurman DJ, Hirshman HP, Burton DS.

Concentrations of cephalothin or cefamandole were measured in serum, bone,
synovial fluid, and wound drainage fluid in fifty-seven patients undergoing total
hip or knee replacement after a two-gram intravenous bolus injection. The
concentrations were similar in serum and synovial fluid for both antibiotics;
however, in bone and drainage fluid the concentration of cefamandole was higher
by a factor of three. Concentrations of the same antibiotic at the hip and knee
were not significantly different even though a tourniquet was used for the knee
replacement procedures.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The antibiotics penetrate bone and
enter synovial fluid so rapidly that it is unnecessary to administer prophylactic
antibiotics prior to the time of surgery.

PMID: 7430187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2079. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Sep;62(6):964-73.

Changes in tissue morphology and collagen composition during the repair of
cortical bone in the adult chicken.

Glimcher MJ, Shapiro F, Ellis RD, Eyre DR.

An animal model was developed to study the histology and collagen chemistry of
healing cortical bone. A hole was cut through the cortex of the mid-shaft of the 
humerus of the adult chicken, which allowed for repair at a mechanically stable
site. After one to two weeks the collagen of the repair tissue, which consisted
principally of woven bone, contained almost three times as much hydroxylysine as 
the collagen of normal adult bone and thus resembled the collagen of embryonic
long bones. By eight weeks, when lamellar one predominated, the hydroxylysine
content had fallen to normal levels. Type I was the major genetic type of
collagen present throughout. No type-II collagen, characteristic of cartilage,
was detected; this was consistent with the histological findings. The results
established that hydroxylysine-rich type-I collagen can be made by osteoblasts of
adult animals as well as by those of embryos and early postnates.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: In order to understand the biological characteristics of fracture
healing, it is vital to study not only the macroscopic organization of the repair
tissue but also the chemical properties of its molecular components. The strength
of healing fractured bone, and indeed of normal bone, depends largely on the
properties of the structural protein collagen. To date, it is not known whether
the collagen in healing fractures is the same as that in normal bone, or whether 
it has distinct chemical features that may suit it for bone repair.

PMID: 7430185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2080. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol. 1980 Sep-Oct;6(5):325-35.

Some recent advances in the clinical aspects of multiple sclerosis.

Tallis RC.

Recent work on the clinical aspects of multiple sclerosis is reviewed with
particular regard to symptomatology: New approaches to clinical symptoms and the 
identification of more subtle impairments are illustrated by recent studies of
visual function in M.S. patients; pathophysiology: It is now widely appreciated
that the dysfunction observed in patients is not determined solely by
histologically demonstrable demyelination. The function of the demyelinated
neuron is highly variable, being dependent upon factors which may change from day
to day. Recent ideas about 'neuro-electric blocking factors' and other factors
that may influence demyelinated neurons and hence symptoms are discussed;
diagnosis: tests on C.S.F., electro-physiological and psychophysiological tests
and computer tomography as aids to diagnosis and the controversy over 'specific' 
blood tests are reviewed; course and prognosis: Long term follow-up studies
confirm that, in a significant proportion of cases, the course of M.S. may be
benign and have identified some early prognostic indices;TREATMENT: The results
of trials of symptomatic (spinal cord stimulation) and would-be curative
therapies (such as dietary supplementation with poly-unsaturated fatty acids and 
immunosuppression) are briefly discussed.

PMID: 6256678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2081. No To Shinkei. 1980 Sep;32(9):941-7.

[A study on mental symptoms developing during the treatment of Parkinson's
disease (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ideshita H, Morita H, Yoshinaga J, Sasaki T, Hikiji A.

We studied on mental symptoms which developed during the treatment of Parkinson's
disease. Hallucination, delusion, and/or delirious state were observed in 23
(22.8%) of 101 cases. The cases with mental symptoms were studied for the
incidence, detail of the symptoms, and the factors involved in their
development.RESULT: 1) Mental symptoms were observed in 23 patients and the
incidence tended to be highest in the patients in their sixties. 2) In
classification of the cases with mental symptoms, 12 cases showed the change of
visual experience as main symptom and 3 cases had delusion. In these two cases,
disturbance of consciousness was minimum, if any. Eight cases showed delirious
state. 3) As for mental symptoms, visual hallucination was most frequently
observed. 4) Complication of hypertension and history of depressive state were
more frequently observed in the cases with mental symptoms than in those without.
5) Mean daily dose of L-dopa upon the onset of mental symptoms was less than mean
daily maximum dose in the cases without mental symptoms. 6) The cases with
cerebral atrophy in CT had a tendency to develop mental symptoms. 7) The cases
with abnormal EEG were liable to develop mental symptoms. 8) The cases with
mental symptoms were more often complicated by dyskinesia than those without.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of mental symptoms during the treatment of Parkinson's 
disease tended to be high in the aged patients who had all or some of these
findings as previous history of psychiatric illness, hypertension, cerebral
atrophy and abnormal EEG.

PMID: 7437167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2082. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1980 Aug;246(2):264-76.

Hemodynamic failure induced by narcotic and toxic doses of 12 CNS depressants in 
intact and pithed rats.

Strubelt O.

Heart rate (HR), cardiac output (CO), stroke volume (SV), arterial blood pressure
(BP), and peripheral resistance (PR) were assessed in awake rats and in rats
anesthetized with hexobarbital, pentobarbital, secobarbital, secbutabarbital,
methaqualone, chloral hydrate, urethane, ethanol, guaiphenesine, meprobamate,
diazepam and chlorpromazine (respired artificially). Anesthesia mostly was
accompanied by an increase of HR and PR and a decrease of CO and SV, whereas BP
remained unchanged or somewhat declined. Infusion of further amounts of the CNS
depressants caused a dose-dependent decrease of HR, CO and BP but did not
influence SV whereas PR declined but did not fall considerably beyond the values 
in awake rats. A strong decline of CO, SV and BP but no change of HR and PR
occurred after pithing in rats. Anesthetic doses of hexobarbital, pentobarbital, 
secobarbital, secbutabarbital, methaqualone, and guaiphenesine produced no
hemodynamic effects in pithed rats. Chloral hydrate, urethane, ethanol,
meprobamate, diazepam, and chlorpromazine, on the other hand, in anesthetic doses
depressed the CO and BP of pithed rats without influencing PR. In toxic doses,
the CNS depressants caused comparable hemodynamic changes in pithed as in
anesthetized rats.CONCLUSION: Hemodynamic failure induced by narcotic doses of
CNS depressants is mainly due to a depression of the vasomotor center(s) and an
impairment of cardiovascular reflex control, that after toxic doses is mainly
caused by the direct cardiovascular-depressive actions of these drugs.

PMID: 7436631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2083. HNO. 1980 Aug;28(8):267-70.

[Frontal sinus carcinoma (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Daniilidis J, Petropoulos P, Triaridis C.

Two cases of carcinoma of the frontal sinus (undifferentiated carcinoma of
squamous epithelium and transitional cell carcinoma) are described. Clinically,
there are difficulties in the differential diagnosis from infections processes,
while, roentgenologically, the image is confused with those of mucocele, pyocele 
and osteomyelitis. The clinical symptoms, as exophthalmos, diplopia, pain and
swelling of the supraorbital region, indicate an extension of the tumor into the 
orbit and the destruction of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus.MANAGEMENT:
Radical removal and radio-therapy.
PROGNOSIS: Very bad.

PMID: 7440267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2084. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 Aug;54(8):721-37.

[Experimental and clinical study of safe prolongation of tourniquet time by
hypothermia of an upper limb (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Seki T.

In order to establish a practical method by which the tourniquet can be safely
kept on for more than 2 hours, i.e., the safe limit in the conventional method,
the author initially made an experimental and then a clinical investigation as
follows.EXPERIMENT: Thirty-five adult mongrel dogs were used including a control 
group. One hour immersion of hind limb in ice water lowers the temperature of leg
muscles from ca. 38 degrees C to 16 degrees--18 decrees C. Thereafter,
maintenance of tourniquet exsanguination of the cooled hind limb for 5 hours
elevates the muscle temperature several degrees, but still keeps it much lower
than in the control group. Edema and limping appeared after release of the
tourniquet and subsided much faster in the cooled group than in the control
group. Result in 12 CASES: Cooling of an upper limb after general anesthesia or
nerve block with ice bags for 30 minutes lowers the temperature of the forearm
muscles from 30 degrees--35 degrees C to 16 degrees--25 degrees C. Tourniquet
applied thereafter at the upper arm was kept inflated maximally for four hours
and 7 minutes. An average of 3 hours and 30 minutes did not cause any serious
side effects but only temporary dysesthesia at the finger tips in 2 cases and a
Tinel's sign at the site where tourniquet was applied in one case.
CONCLUSION: These results proved that tourniquet time could be safely prolonged
for 4 hours. The most important problem in the future is to clarify how far it
can be safely prolonged.

PMID: 7205039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2085. Acta Physiol Scand. 1980 Jul;109(3):253-60.

Patchy, intermittent ischemia in renal cortex during tourniquet shock in dog.

Tyssebotn I, Kirkebø A.

The effect of bilateral hindlimb occlusion on the distribution of renal cortical 
blood flow was investigated in anesthetized dogs. Local blood flow in outer
cortex (OCF) and in inner cortex (ICF) was measured by 6 platinum electrodes
recording hydrogen gas clearance. Renal blood flow fell unsignificantly while
hematocrit (Hct) rose from 37 to 47% during the 4 h tourniquet period. After the 
release of the tourniquets average arterial blood pressure fell to about 75% of
control, whereas OCF and ICF were proportionately reduced towards 30--40% of
control. Hct increased to 58%. Patchy, intermittent ischemia in outer and inner
cortex was irregularly observed after release of the tourniquets when Hct had
increased markedly, as previously found during dehydration and endotoxin shock.
The sudden shifts in washouts rates from single electrodes were not accompanied
by corresponding variations in total renal blood flow. Heparinization of
alpha-receptor blocking did not suppress the appearance of abrupt flow changes in
this period. However, sudden shifts in local flow were also seen shortly after
application of the tourniquets, before Hct had increased, in this phase possibly 
induced by an increased renal nervous tone.IN CONCLUSION: OCF and ICF fell to the
same degree during tourniquet shock. Patchy, intermittent ischemia was observed
in the renal cortex, most frequently at high Hct, but also before Hct did rise.

PMID: 7446170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2086. Acta Orthop Scand. 1980 Jun;51(3):535-40.

Migration of the acetabular socket after total hip replacement determined by
roentgen stereophotogrammetry.

Baldursson H, Hansson LI, Olsson TH, Selvik G.

In order to evaluate the feasibility of a roentgen stereophotogrammetric method
for the analysis of the migration pattern of joint prostheses, tantalum balls
were implanted into the acetabular socket and the pelvic bone during total hip
replacement in four patients with rheumatoid arthritis. During the postoperative 
period, the migration of the acetabular socket was determined. The observation
period varied from 5-24 months. No clinical or radiographic signs of mechanical
loosening or infection were noted. All the investigated patients showed a gradual
migration of the acetabular socket. The cranial migration measured up to 1.8 mm
in 2 years. The migration along the transverse and sagittal axes was less but not
constantly directed. The rotatory movements about the three axes varied and
measured up to 5.5 degrees in 2 years. The translation and rotation were greatest
during the first few months. The results indicate a gradual migration of the
acetabular socket in hip arthroplasty in the osteopenic skeleton in rheumatoid
arthritis.IN CONCLUSION: roentgen stereophotogrammetry may prove to be a valuable
means of analysing the migration of implanted prostheses and detecting prosthetic
loosening, thereby increasing the possibility of early and correct diagnosis and 
therapy.

PMID: 7446039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2087. Acta Physiol Scand. 1980 Jun;109(2):201-9.

Simultaneous determinations of metabolic and hormonal responses, heart rate,
temperature and oxygen uptake in running rats.

Sonne B, Galbo H.

We have developed a tiny metabolism chamber, including a treadmill, for the study
of exercising rats. The effects of work time, speed and inclination of running on
VO2, heart rate (HR), respiratory exchange ratio (R) and rectal temperature (TR) 
were determined. During prolonged runnig VO2, HR, R and catecholamine
concentrations in arterial plasma drawn through chronically implanted catheters
displayed an initial "overshooting", which did not diminish during the four times
the rats within 10 days participated in experiments. When graded exercise was
performed after a pre-test run of low intensity VO2, HR, R and TR increased with 
increasing running speed but did not vary with inclination. During 45 min of
running, the plasma concentration of glucagon increased and that of insulin
remained unchanged in spite of a marked increase in blood glucose.CONCLUSIONS: In
exercise studies in rats it is necessary to introduce a 20 min pre-test period,
during which unspecific stress responses disappear. This pre-test period cannot
be replaced by "habituation runs" on 3 preceding days. Furthermore, using rats,
running speed rather than inclination has to be changed in order to establish
physiologically significant differences in work intensity. The chamber makes it
possible to carry out sophisticated studies of adaptations to exercise of a wide 
range of intensities in untrained rats and to relate the responses to VO2.

PMID: 6999833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2088. J Clin Invest. 1980 Jun;65(6):1272-84.

Mechanisms of insulin resistance in human obesity: evidence for receptor and
postreceptor defects.

Kolterman OG, Insel J, Saekow M, Olefsky JM.

To assess the mechanisms of the insulin resistance in human obesity, we have
determined, using a modification of the euglycemic glucose clamp technique, the
shape of the in vivo insulin-glucose disposal dose-response curves in 7 control
and 13 obese human subjects. Each subject had at least three euglycemic studies
performed at insulin infusion rates of 15, 40, 120, 240, or 1,200 mU/M2/min. The 
glucose disposal rate was decreased in all obese subjects compared with controls 
(101 +/- 16 vs. 186 +/- 16 mg/M2/min) during the 40 mU/M2/min insulin infusion.
The mean dose-response curve for the obese subjects was displaced to the right,
i.e., the half-maximally effective insulin concentration was 270 +/- 27 microU/ml
for the obese compared with 130 +/- 10 microU/ml for controls. In nine of the
obese subjects, the dose-response curves were shifted to the right, and maximal
glucose disposal rates (at a maximally effective insulin concentration) were
markedly decreased, indicating both a receptor and a postreceptor defect. On the 
other hand, four obese patients had right-shifted dose-response curves but
reached normal maximal glucose disposal rates, consistent with decreased insulin 
receptors as the only abnormality. When the individual data were analyzed, it was
found that the lease hyperinsulinemic, least insulin-resistant patients displayed
only the receptor defect, whereas those with the greatest hyperinsulinemia
exhibited the largest post-receptor defect, suggesting a continuous spectrum of
defects as one advances from mild to severe insulin resistance. When insulin's
ability to suppress hepatic glucose output was assessed, hyperinsulinemia
produced total suppresssion in all subjects. The dose-response curve for the
obese subjects was shifted to the right, indicating a defect in insulin
receptors. Insulin binding to isolated adipocytes obtained from the obese
subjects was decreased, and a highly significant inverse linear relationship was 
demonstrated between insulin binding and the serum insulin concentration required
for halfmaximal stimulation of glucose disposal.IN CONCLUSION: (a) decreased
cellular insulin receptors contribute to the insulin resistance associated with
human obesity in all subjects; (b) in the least hyperinsulinemic,
insulin-resistant patients, decreased insulin receptors are the sole defect,
whereas in the more hyperinsulinemic, insulin-resistant patients, the insulin
resistance is the result of a combination of receptor and postreceptor
abnormalities; (c) all obese patients were insensitive to insulin's suppressive
effects on hepatic glucose output; this was entirely the result of decreased
insulin receptors; no postreceptor defect in this insulin effect was
demonstrated.

PMCID: PMC371464
PMID: 6997333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2089. Clin Nephrol. 1980 May;13(5):219-30.

Mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis.

Migone L, Olivetti G, Allegri L, Dall'Aglio P.

The clinical and bioptic aspects of 211 cases of primary mesangioproliferative
glomerulonephritis with urinary abnormalities lasting mre than 1 year were
reviewed. We observed the following clinical syndromes: 1) Persistent
proteinuria, isolated or with microhematuria: - a) with latent onset: 39% with
hypertension (H); 10% with renal failure (RF); - b) with acute nephritic syndrome
at onset: 31% with H; 6% with RF; 2) Recurrent macroscopic hematuria: 26% with H;
10% with RF; 3) Nephrotic syndrome: 70% with H; 29% with RF. The histological
lesions, diffuse in all cases, appeared unrelated to the clinical syndromes
and/or immunofluorescent patterns. In 65 cases with prevalent mesangial deposits 
of IgA, 46% showed persistent proteinuria with latent onset, 23% persistent
proteinuria with acute nephritic syndrome at onset, 28% recurrent hematuria and
3% nephrotic syndrome. 37% of such patients developed H, 14% RF and 6% remission 
(R). On the other hand in 65 patients with other deposits the clinical aspects
were as follows: persistent proteinuria with latent onset: 46%; persistent
proteinuria with acute nephritic syndrome at onset: 31%; recurrent hematuria:
17%; nephrotic syndrome: 6%. 35% of these cases displayed H; 9% RF and 8%
R.CONCLUSION: primary mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis appears to
represent a heterogeneous group with only the morphological aspects in common and
associated with one of the three above-mentioned clinical syndromes.
Immunohistology shows different Ig and/or complement which bear no specific
relationship with clinical courses. In particular IgA deposits are present in 50%
of the cases and are only related to higher incidence of recurrent hematuria and 
abnormal IgA serum levels.

PMID: 6994961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2090. Acta Physiol Scand. 1980 Apr;108(4):373-9.

Sodium nitroprusside induced cGMP accumulation in isolated frog skin epithelium. 
Effect on cAMP, hydroosmotic and natriferic response to antidiuretic horomone.

Johnsen AH, Nielsen R.

The cGMP content of isolated frog skin epithelia has been measured, and the basal
level was found to be 14.3 +/- 1.7 fmol/mg dry lweight. 0.1 mM sodium
nitroprusside induced a 10-fold increase in the cGNP level within 5 min after
which it rose more slowly. The maximum increase in cGMP level was obtained with 1
mM sodium nitroprusside, giving a 20-50-fold increase. 1 mM sodium nitroprusside 
per se had no effect on osmotic water flow or active sodium transport. On the
other hand, the osmotic water flow response to arginine vasotocin was somewhat
enhanced in skins which had been pretreated with 1 mM sodium nitroprusside; thus 
the water flow responses to 1 and 31 ng/ml arginine vasotocin were on the average
31 and 14% higher in skins exposed to sodium nitroprusside than in control skins.
Sodium nitroprusside had no effect on the increment in sodium transport rate
elicited by arginine vasotocin. Sodium nitroprusside alone increased the cAMP
level slightly; the enhanced cAMP level, reached after 30 min incubation with 40 
ng/ml arginine vasotocin, was 20% higher in the presence of 1 mM sodium
nitroprusside.IN CONCLUSION: cGMP has no effect on osmotic water flow nor on
active sodium transport and is not involved in the regulation of sodium transport
by antidiuretic hormone. However, cGMP (or sodium nitroprusside) has a moderate
effect on the hormone-stimulated osmotic water flow.

PMID: 6251698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2091. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1980 Apr;73(4):387-96.

[Congenital tricuspid insufficiency due to valvular dysplasia. Review of the
literature in light of a case in a 40-year-old adult].

[Article in French]

Lagarde O, Garabedian V, Coignard A, Duret JC, Piwnica A, Droniou J.

Congenital tricuspid incompetence due to valvular dysplasia is a defect involving
the leaflets (normally inserted on the ring) the cordae tendinae and papillary
muscles of the tricuspid valve. It is a rare condition, usually diagnosed at open
heart. A case of congenital tricuspid incompetence in a 40 year old adult is
reported. Surgery indicated for resistant heart failure, confirmed the
preoperative clinical, echocardiographic and haemodynamic diagnosis. The
dysplasia comprised absence of cordae and papillary muscles on two thirds of the 
anterior leaflet. Valvular replacement with a bioprosthesis was carried out. 31
other reported cases were discovered on review of the literature since 1923. Two 
main groups of patients were individualised according to their clinical contexts 
and outcome: --The first group comprises the newborn and infants. Cyanosis,
cardiomegaly and right ventricular failure in the neonatal period raised the
differential diagnosis of Ebstein's anomaly and Uhl's disease. The outcome was
fatal in several days to weeks. Autopsy confirmed the diagnosis. --The second
group comprises patients who decompensate during adult life with right
ventricular failure and degrees of tricuspid incompetence. The natural outcome
with or without medical treatment may be prolonged, one such patient dying at the
age of 53. Congenital tricuspid incompetence, diagnosed after elimination of
other causes, was confirmed at operation. Complementary investigations: --Cardiac
catheterisation showed tricuspid incompetence and its haemodynamic effects.
--Echocardiography, in our case, showed dilatation of the right ventricle and
pulsed Doppler echocardiography suggested tricuspid incompetence. The inability
to record the anterior tricuspid leaflet, an unusual feature considering the
right ventricular dilatation, contrasted with perfect definition of the septal
leaflet. The absence of echocardiography in the other 31 reported cases does not 
allow any conclusions to be drawn as to the significances of this sign. --The
tricuspid valve dysplasia was precisely defined on pathological examination: a)
thickened valve, b) hypoplastic chordae and papillary muscles, c) incomplete
separation between the leaflets and ventricular wall, d) focal agenesis of
valvular tissues. --An associated pulmonary artery stenosis in the newborn may
explain the severity of symptoms in this age group. This hypothesis, based only
on pathological studies, cannot be confirmed.TREATMENT: --In the newborn, the
rare surgical attempts at repair have all failed. --In the adult, surgery,
indicated for heart failure resistant to all medical treatment, is as for other
organic tricuspid incompetence, annuloplasty or valve replacement, by mechanical 
or bioprosthesis. Porcine bioprosthesis, as chosen in the case reported, has been
used by some authors for 5-8 years with good results. Nevertheless, the
longer-term outcome of this type of prosthesis is not yet known.

PMID: 6778440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2092. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Apr;62(3):384-99.

Human osteopetrosis: a histological, ultrastructural, and biochemical study.

Shapiro F, Glimcher MJ, Holtrop ME, Tashjian AH Jr, Brickley-Parsons D, Kenzora
JE.

Histological ultrastructural, and biochemical studies of the tissues of a patient
with osteopetrosis were done. The bone contained an increased number of
osteoclasts which were characterized ultrastructurally by the absence of ruffled 
borders and clear zones, hallmarks of actively resorbing osteoclasts. In contrast
with normal human bone, tissue collagenase was not detected in osteopetrotic bone
cultured in vitro, nor was tissue collagenase activity released when the
osteopetrotic bone was incubated with parathyroid hormone. No striking
abnormalities of parathyroid hormone or calcitonin were found in the blood or
parathyroid and thyroid glands. Except for a slight increase in the extent of
lysine hydroxylation of bone collagen, no significant biochemical abnormality of 
collagen was found. The histological, ultrastructural, and biochemical data
support the hypothesis that the basic defect in osteopetrosis is cellular and the
osteoclasts, in particular, are abnormal. They appear to be unable to resorb bone
and cartilage, and they do not appear to respond to parathyroid hormone in a
completely normal way.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Bone marrow transplantation has
produced improvement in both experimental animals and humans and should be
actively considered in a child with osteopetrosis who is not thriving.

PMID: 6245094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2093. No Shinkei Geka. 1980 Apr;8(4):363-9.

[Evaluation of laser surgery against brain tumor (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Hara M, Okada J, Takeuchi K, Takizawa T, Matsumoto M.

A surgical carbon dioxide laser unit (Laser) has been used in 26 cases of various
brain tumors, including 10 meningioma (4 sphenoid ridge, 3 parasagittal, 1 falx, 
1 olfactory, 1 posterior fossa); 12 glioma (7 glioblastoma, 5 astrocytoma); two
metastatic brain tumors; 1 hemangioblastoma, and 1 AVM. Criteria for Laser use
based on evaluation and location of meningioma were: grade 1, convenient but
adjuvant; grade 2, also necessary; grade 3, indispensable. Most meningioma in
convexity and parasagittal were grade 1-2, with those in the sphenoid ridge grade
2-3. In the glioma group, hemorrhage in 3 cases of glioblastoma was easily
Laser-controlled, and the tumors wasted away in a short time with vaporization.
There was minimal mechanical effect on the adjacent tissue.CONCLUSION: In
neurosurgery, Laser is obligatory in sphenoid ridge meningioma to dissect the
internal carotid artery, middle cerebral artery, cavernous sinus, sphenoid ridge,
etc. It is very useful in glioma, especially glioblastoma, considering shortened 
surgical duration, decreased blood loss and extended tumor resection. Laser
surgery is proposed as most appropriate for brain tumors in elderly and poor risk
cases mainly for its vaporizing function.

PMID: 7383251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2094. Fortschr Med. 1980 Mar 27;98(12):415-8.

[Dislocations of the knee joint].

[Article in German]

Schuster G.

Tibial dislocation in the knee joint with an incidence of 0.2--3% is a rare event
but inevitably bears severe consequences. From 1970--1978 we observed 7 cases.
Most frequently there was a complex instability of the joint, accompanied by
blood vessel and nerve lesions in 5 cases.THERAPY: Early suture or reinsertion of
ligament rupture. Strict priority of blood vessel injuries. Conservative
treatment results in poor functional results with necessity of secondary
reconstructive procedures. Interdisciplinary cooperation is of crucial value in
these injuries.

PMID: 6892809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2095. Fortschr Med. 1980 Mar 20;98(11):(410-2).

[Digoxin therapy in patients with long-term digitalis therapy. Comparison of the 
digoxin blood level after oral administration of digoxin and beta-methyldigoxin].

[Article in German]

Hennersdorf G, Leithäuser H.

The serum digoxin levels of 23 patients were measured by radio immune assay. The 
patients were divided into 2 groups receiving either 0,5 mg digoxin b.i.d. or
0,25 mg digoxin b.i.d. orally after having been changed from a maintenance dose
of 0,2 mg beta-methyl-digoxin b.i.d. The applicated digoxin was the preparation
Lenoxin. The question was whether typical or reduced maintenance doses of digoxin
in the new preparation reached therapeutic digoxin serum levels in the absence of
renal insufficiency.RESULTS: 1. The maintenance dose of 0,2 mg
beta-methyl-digoxin produced stable serum digoxin levels within non-toxic range
in all patients; 2. the dosage of 0,5 mg digoxin (group 1) induced accumulation
to toxic levels (2,14 mg/ml). A change to 0,25 mg digoxin led to therapeutical
serum levels; 3. when using the dosage of 0,25 mg digoxin from the onset of the
test (group 2) accumulation was avoided and normal serum digoxin levels were
observed during the test period.

PMID: 7372228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2096. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1980 Feb 15;92(4):107-13.

[A retrospective study of carcinomas of the oral cavity: a preliminary report
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Fries R, Platz H, Wagner RR, Stickler A, Grabner H, Kränzl B, Krekeler G, Kriens 
O, Leijhanec J, Mehnert H, Scharf F, Schroll K, Schulz P, Waldhart E, Wepner F,
Zisser G.

The German-Austrian-Swiss Research Team on Maxillofacial Tumours is investigating
a series of 585 carcinomas of the oral cavity, lips and oropharynx by
biostatistical methods. The aim of the study is the determination of relevant
prognostic symptoms of oral cavity carcinomas, classification of the series on
the basis of these symptoms, the determination of therapeutic efficacy and the
assessment of collective and individual prognosis.PRELIMINARY RESULTS: 1. Factors
of prognostic relevance are probably only tumour size and intensity of regional
metastases. 2. The classification of the series becomes problematic due to the
lack of relevant prognostic factors.

PMID: 7395225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2097. An Esp Pediatr. 1980 Feb;13(2):87-100.

[Bronchial asthma. Clinical evolution with hyposensitization (author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Martorell Aragonés A, Vila Martínez R, Colomer Sala J.

Clinical evolution of 94 diagnosticated children of bronchial asthma that
received hyposensitization therapy for 18 months and other 43 children in
treatment for 24 months is studied. Their sex, etiology, age of onset of their
illness and age in which their treatment began are analysed too. A long delay is 
noticed between the onset of the asthmatic crisis and the moment in which they
are taken to the Allergy-Clinic.IN CONCLUSION: a) Hyposensitization therapy
supposes a significative statistical clinical improvement, leading in most cases 
to keep under control the illness with a vanishing of symptomatology. b) The
improvement does not depend upon sex or the age of onset of the illness, although
it has some relation to the time of evolution. c) Clinical improvement may be
delayed even 24 months later after the beginning of treatment.

PMID: 7396274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2098. Eur J Cell Biol. 1980 Feb;20(3):228-33.

Characterization of nucleoside diphosphatase in the onion root tip. III.
Solubilization and activation of membrane-bound enzyme(s).

Klohs WD, Goff CW.

The latency of nucleoside diphosphatase (NDPase) in onions root homogenates has
been examined by comparing the activation of NDPase activity resulting from
detergent treatment with that due to storage of homogenates for several days in
the cold. Both detergent treatment and cold storage activated NDPase
approximately two-fold. In both cases this activation was paralleled by the loss 
of enzyme activity from the membrane fractions and its appearance in the
supernatants. Electrophoresis of these supernatants revealed an identifical
isoenzyme pattern of 5 NDPase bands for both preparations. Enzyme kinetic studies
demonstrated that NDPase from the detergent-treated homogenate and the homogenate
stored in the cold as well as NDPase from the membrane and supernatant fractions 
from each of the homogenates all had the same Km value. These data suggest that
latency of NDPase is the result of a breakdown of cellular membranes and
subsequent release of NDPase.ABBREVIATIONS: DOC, deoxycholate; NDPase, nucleoside
diphosphatase; IDP, inosine 5'-diphosphate; UDP, uridine 5'-diphosphate; GDP,
guanosine 5'-diphosphate.

PMID: 6102034  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2099. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1980 Feb;184(1):31-40.

[Comparative monitoring of pre-ejection-period and transcutaneously measured pO2 
in neonatal period (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bärtling T, Klöck FK, Liedtke B.

Pre-ejection period (PEP) and transcutaneous measured pO2 (tc pO2) were monitored
simultaneously with the beat-to-beat ECG in 55 cases of unselected neonates. In
addition body weight, acid-base-status and body temperature were registered 11
neonates were monitored immediately post partum, the others at various times
until 9 days after delivery.RESULTS: The mean value of PEP after delivery is 63,3
msec. There is a negative correlation between neonatal heart rate and
Pre-ejection-period. Increases of body temperature leads to a decrease of the PEP
and vice versa. There are no direct significant alterations in PEP in connection 
with changes in neonatal tc pO2. Only when tc pO2-values beyond 20 mmHg were
registered in distressed neonates PEP shortened significantly. PEP shortened also
in periods of neonatal crying PEP is not correlated to birth weight or the actual
neonatal weight when measurement of PEP and tc pO2 was performed.

PMID: 7195106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2100. J Biol Chem. 1980 Jan 25;255(2):327-30.

Relationship between deactivation of insulin-stimulated glucose transport and
insulin dissociation in isolated rat adipocytes.

Ciaraldi TP, Olefsky JM.

The time course of 125I-insulin dissociation from receptors and deactivation of
insulin-stimulated glucose transport was measured in rat adipocytes. When cells
were incubated with a submaximally stimulating insulin concentration (1 ng/ml),
insulin dissociated rapidly at 24 degrees C and 37 degrees C, with a t1/2 of 26
and 14 min, respectively. On the other hand, deactivation of 3-O-methylglucose
transport proceeded at a much slower rate. The t1/2 of deactivation was 73 min at
24 degrees C and 43 min at 37 degrees C. Thus, the activated state of the glucose
transport system persisted at a time when receptor occupancy had greatly
decreased, and hormone dissociation was 3 times faster than deactivation; both
processes were equally temperature-dependent. When glucose (1 mM) was omitted
from the buffer, deactivation was essentially completely inhibited for at least 2
h despite the fact that the rate of insulin dissociation was unaffected.IN
CONCLUSION: 1) termination of the insulin signal on glucose transport can be
separated from dissociation of insulin receptor complexes; 2) transport
deactivation proceeds much more slowly than insulin dissociation and is dependent
on some aspect of ongoing cellular metabolism.

PMID: 7356614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2101. Klin Wochenschr. 1980 Jan 15;58(2):65-71.

Classification of normal and malignant lymphatic cells using acid phosphatase and
acid esterase.

Huhn D, Thiel E, Rodt H.

The usefulness of cytochemical tests (APh and ANAE) to replace or to supplement
membrane markers in subclassification of normal and malignant lymphatic cells was
investigated.MATERIAL: normal lymphocytes subfractionated by rosetting and
centrifugation, and in M. Hodgkin and CLL; lymphoblastoid cell lines; malignant
lymphatic cells in different types of lymphatic leukemia. In normal human blood, 
T-lymphocytes are marked by a distinct "dot-like" ANAE-reactivity which is
somewhat less pronounced in the small (11%) subgroup of Fc-IgG-receptor positive 
T-lymphocytes; B-lymphocytes are negative or finely granular positive.
Lymphoblastoid cell lines of B- and of T-type are ANAE- and APh-positive. In some
lymphatic malignancies, a characteristic pattern of activity of APh or of ANAE
may support the diagnosis. The value of ANAE-cytochemistry is highly estimated
for the quantitative determination of the percentage of normal T-lymphocytes
lymphatic leukemias, immunological disorders, and during immunosuppressive
therapy.

PMID: 6966011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2102. Acta Physiol Acad Sci Hung. 1980;56(4):401-10.

Exit routes for secretory proteins from the dog pancreas.

Papp M, Fehér S, Németh EP, Somogyi J, Folly G.

The relative importance of the pancreatic venous and lymphatic routes for the
transport of enzymes away from the pancreas was investigated. The activities of
lipase and amylase were compared in arterial plasma, pancreaticoduodenal lymph
and venous plasma, pancreatic interstitial fluid and juice in 31 anaesthetized
dogs. Enzyme activities were determined before, during and after stimulation of
the acinar parenchyma by 4 U/kg b.w. secretin + CCK-PZ for 60 min. During
stimulation either is the juice secreted into the duodenum or we ligated the main
pancreatic duct. Enzyme output was calculated as the volume x enzyme activity.
Initial activities of both enzymes were higher in lymph than in plasma samples.
Pancreatic stimulation raised the level of both enzymes in plasma. Stimulation
raised lymph lipase activity higher than in plasma, even without duct ligation.
Duct ligation increased enzyme activities to considerably higher values in oedema
fluid than in lymph. When enzyme output in the stimulated juice for 60 min was
considered 100%, output in plasma volume (5% of b.w.) was about 15% both for
lipase and for amylase during stimulated secretion, 25--30% for both enzymes when
duct had been ligated. Lymphatic enzyme output was found negligible.CONCLUSIONS: 
during pancreatic stimulation biologically important amounts of secretory
proteins enter the blood circulation. The lymphatic transport is negligible,
since pancreatic lymph flow is several hundred times less than blood flow.

PMID: 6169250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2103. Ann Anesthesiol Fr. 1980;21(4):421-30.

[Competitive study of the effects of naloxone and of almitrine on fentanyl
analgesia in the anesthetized dog: effects on the muzzle opening reflex and blood
gases].

[Article in French]

Dauthier C, Gaudy JH, Willer JC.

The search for a technique making it possible to dissociate the analgesia and
ventilatory depression of central analgesics led to a comparison of the effects
of naloxone, a specific morphinomimetic antagonist, with almitrine, a ventilatory
stimulant with a peripheral action, on muzzle opening reflex and blood gases.
Five male dogs (Beagles, aged one year), anaesthetised with Alfetesine were
treated separately with the two drugs used alone and after fentanyl analgesia
(injection of fractionnated doses up to the threshold of apnoea). The association
of the two drugs was also tested in tyhe dog after analgesia. The parameters
studied were muzzle opening reflex, as an indication of analgesia, and blood
gases, and were observed for 45 minutes, including 15 minutes control.RESULTS: 1 
- The intravenous injection of 1,2 mg of naloxone had the effect of increasing
the surface area of muscle potentials with a maximum of 7 per cent (p 0.001) at
the 15 th minute. By contrast, no significant change in blood gases was seen. In 
the same dogs given fentanyl analgesia, naloxone not only reversed respiratory
depression but had a stimulatory effect on MOR reaching 7 per cent (p 0.001) at
the 30 th minute. 2 - The effects of 1 mg.kg-1 of almitrine were characterised by
a fall in MOR for a period equal to that of the study and a minimum of 7.8 per
cent (p 0.001) at the 20 th minute. At the same time, marked ventilatory
stimulation was seen. PO2 rose by 22.7 per cent (p 0.02) at the 5 th minute. PCO2
fell during the 30 minutes studied with a minimum of 39.6 per cent (p 0.01) at
the 20 th minute. Almitrine did not antagonise the depression of MOR caused by
fentanyl but reversed the respiratory depression of the analgesic, increasing PO2
by 26 per cent (p 0.01) and decreasing PCO2 by 25.7 per cent (p 0.01). 3 - The
combination of both drugs cancelled out the abolition of the reflex by fentanyl
then facilitated it up to 24.7 per cent (p 0.001) in comparison with the animal
not receiving any analgesic. By contrast, the ventilatory action of almitrine was
not potentialised by naloxone. In view of these data, and in the absence of any
emergency, the choice of naloxone as an antagonist of ventilatory depression of
central analgesics should not be preferential in order to avoid the rebound
effect.

PMID: 6110396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2104. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1980;131(5):266-71.

[Combined intravenous arteriography and pyelography in hypertension. I. --
Technical and diagnostical aspects on the bases of 475 cases (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Cecile JP, Wallaert CH, Foucart H.

Renal arteriogram can be obtained by a rapid injection (15-22 ml/s) of a venous
bolus of 2-3 ml/kg B.W. of contrast media at 38 p. 100 and followed by an
excretory pyelography with early films and wash out by furosemide to determine
the functional significance of an eventual stenosis in a hypertensive patient.
Analysis of 2 000 such radiological examinations, 475 of which done in
hypertensive patients, showed that a stenosis could be adequatly detected in 70
p. cent of the cases when only one arteriographic film was taken and in 95 p. 100
of the cases when 6 films were taken with a film changer. With this latter
technique the morphological information was comparable to that obtained with the 
Seldinger technique. This latter was however necessary to confirm the stenosis
preoperatively when only one arteriographic film was taken. Tolerance of the
examination was good in spite of transitory heat sensation and headache in 66 p. 
cent of the cases. The examination of 475 hypertensive patients led to discover
55 renal artery stenosis, 12 of which were functionnal, 4 aneurysms (1 of the
renal artery, 2 of the aorta, and 1 of the hepatic artery) and one coarctation.IN
CONCLUSION: combined intravenous arteriography and pyelography is a valuable
technic, as regards, safety and efficiency in the diagnosis of renovascular
hypertension. This warrants a comparison of this technique with the classical
diagnostic approach of renovascular hypertension as regards its diagnostic
efficiency and cost for the community.

PMID: 7447227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2105. Arch Dermatol Res. 1980;269(3):311-23.

[Amino acid losses in human sweat. Influence of oral contraceptives, physical
exercise and sex on the excretion of amino acids in sweat (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Liappis N, Kochbeck E, Eckhardt G, Hahne H, Kesseler K, Bantzer P.

With the aid of ion exchange column chromatography we determined quantitatively
the free amino acids in thermal sweat of the total human body surface. Sweat of
60 healthy men and 63 healthy women (aged 18-31 years) collected during 12 min of
sauna bathing was investigated. Thirty men and 31 women were well trained, 33
women were taking oral, hormonal contraceptives. Sweat was deproteinised by
adding an equal volume of 5% sulphosalicylic acid.RESULTS: 1. The comparison of
the women taking oral contraceptives with the women not taking oral
contraceptives showed no qualitative or significant quantitative differences in
the excretion of amino acids in thermal sweat collected from the total body
surface. 2. The comparison of the trained women with the untrained women neither 
revealed qualitative or significant quantitative differences in the excretion of 
amino acids in thermal sweat collected from the total body surface. 3. As
compared to the trained men, untrained men excreted in thermal sweat collected
from the total body surface significantly more alanine, arginine, citrulline,
cystine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, serine, 
threonine, tyrosine, and valine. 4. The sex-specific comparison of the amino acid
excretion in sweat showed that men had a significantly increased excretion of
cystine, histidine, leucine, and taurine. Proline was detected only in the sweat 
of women. 5. The quantitative results obtained for the amino acid excretions
during 12 min of sauna bathing suggest that persons exposed to hard, physical
activity and/or high environmental temperatures have quite equal amino acid
losses in sweat and in 24 h urine.

PMID: 7235735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2106. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1980;Suppl:227-32.

Different patterns in essential hypertension and possible choice of
antihypertensive drugs.

Koster M.

Essential hypertension is not a disease entity, so therefore it is understood
that there are several causes of its development. The hemodynamic relation is not
the same in all patients. The traditional concept of an increased total
peripheral resistance (TPR) and a normal cardiac output (CO) is not valid for all
cases. We developed a method to estimate a measure for TPR independently of the
CO. The results in six patients are described: three of them show a hemodynamic
pattern of increased CO and normal TPR, two of increased TPR and normal CO, while
the sixth patient shows a mixed pattern. These results have important
implications for therapy: drugs lowering CO are more indicated in the first
group, drugs influencing TPR promise a better result in the second one.
Furthermore a review is given of other mechanisms governing the bloodpressure and
indicating a special kind of treatment, i.e., the reninangiotensin-aldosteron
system and the catecholamines.IN CONCLUSION: we know some important determinants 
of high blood pressure. Most of them can be determined, but in general praxis
this is too troublesome. However, for very difficult cases it is now possible to 
try and find the most promising combination of drugs for that particular case.

PMID: 6998396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2107. Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1980;226(4):225-37.

Peripheral-vastibular spontaneous nystagmus. Analysis of reproducibility and
methoidolgies.

Reker U.

With peripheral spontaneous nystagmus the intensity and its reproducibility was
electronystagmorgraphically analyzed with eyes open under Frenzel's glasses and
with eyes closed.RESULTS: 1. The maximum intensity of a spontaneous nystagmus
with eyes closed is several times higher than under Frenzel's glasses. 2. A weak 
nystagmus can, under Frenzel's glasses, only be recognized under favorable
conditions. A rather long and careful search in a totally dark room is necessary.
3. With purely peripheral lesions, the spontaneous nystagmus with closed eyes
shows large intensity fluctuations, and it may disappear temporarily despite
mental arithmetics. Contrary to this, with eyes open under Frenzel's glasses, the
intensity fluctuation of the nystagmus is remarkably lower. Therefore, even
experimental examinations with patients should be carried out
electronystagmorgraphically under Frenzel's glasses. The absolute reaction is
lower, but the content of information is higher because of the significantly
better reproducibility.

PMID: 6970034  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2108. Arch Psychiatr Nervenkr. 1980;229(2):89-112.

[Comparison of nondominant unilateral and bilateral electroconvulsive
therapy--clinical efficiency and side effects (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Meyendorf R, Bender W, Baumann E, Athen D, Ortlieb S.

In a double-blind study 100 patients were treated either with conventional ECT or
with unilateral ECT. The majority suffered from depressive illness, mainly
endogenous depression. On average, they were hospitalized 41 days and
unsuccessfully treated with antidepressants and other psychoactive drugs before
ECT was given as a last treatment resort. ECT efficiency was evaluated by: (1)
clinical evaluation, (2) AMP documentation, (3) the Hamilton Rating Scale for
Depression, and (4) the von Zerssen Mood Scale. Side effects were evaluated by a 
test (1) for vigilance (tachistoscopic threshold), (2) for verbal and visual
memory, (3) for performance, (4) for concept formation, and (5) the Benton
test.RESULTS: There was no difference in clinical efficiency between the two
methods. As for side effects, unilateral ECT produced fewer organic brain
syndromes and less impairment of verbal memory and performance. Total side
effects were significantly less. There was no significant difference between the 
two methods with regard to vigilance, visual memory, and concept formation. One
week after ECT, in both groups there was a significant increase in vigilance and 
visual memory in comparison to the results before ECT; the unilateral group also 
showed significant increase in verbal memory and concentration.

PMID: 7447681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2109. Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn. 1980;6(4):373-86.

Limitations of post-extrasystolic potentiation in assessing regional myocardial
viability in man.

Slack JD, Landon JK, Cole JS, Hanley HG, O'Connor W.

To investigate the usefulness of regional response to post-extrasystolic
potentiation as a predictor of left ventricular viability in patients with
coronary artery disease, 46 patients underwent calibrated biplane left
ventricular cineangiography during which a single, timed ventricular premature
contraction was introduced.RESULTS: Of 758 normal or hypokinetic segments, 486
(64.1%) showed a positive response to post-extrasystolic potentiation. Of 116
akinetic or dyskinetic segments, only 51 (43.9%) showed a positive response to
post-extrasystolic potentiation (P less than 0.001). Because akinetic or
dyskinetic areas would not be expected to respond to post-extrasystolic
potentiation based on animal laboratory data, alternative explanations were
sought to explain such positive response in man. Analysis of percent change in
chord length of normal or hypokinetic segments adjacent to akinetic or dyskinetic
segments that did or did not respond to post-extrasystolic potentiation revealed 
(10.2% +/- 1.2%) vs (1.3% +/- 0.7%) improvement, respectively (P less than 0.001)
(mean +/- SE).
CONCLUSION: Passive rather than active events may be responsible for "improved"
regional wall motion following post-extrasystolic potentiation in akinetic or
dyskinetic regions. If unrecognized, these factors may lead to improper
interpretation of "intervention ventriculography" utilizing post-extrasystolic
potentiation.

PMID: 6162569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2110. Chir Forum Exp Klin Forsch. 1980:195-9.

[Studies of gastric motility following SPV and pyloroplasty in dogs (author's
transl)].

[Article in German]

Heltzel W, Brückner WL, Wisselsperger H, Holle F.

In unanesthetized dogs, the mechanical activity of the antrum and pylorus was
studied by means of strain gauge force transducers during fasting condition,
after feeding, and following application of metoclopramide (Paspertin), before
and after SPV without pyloroplasty, and after SPV with pyloroplasty
respectively.RESULTS: 1) The mechanical activity during fasting condition differs
from that after feeding. 2) During fasting, the contractile force is decreased
for about 15%-20% after SPV without pyloroplasty and for about 50% after SPV with
pyloroplasty. The frequency remains unchanged. 3) After feeding, the contractile 
force is decreased by about 50%, the frequency shows an increase of 100%. The
same results can be obtained after SPV with or without pyloroplasty. 4) After
metoclopramide the contractile force is increased up to 30%, during fasting,
after feeding, and also before and after SPV. The frequency, however, shows no
significant change. 5) The postoperative findings remained unchanged throughout
the entire observation period (up to the 20th postoperative month).

PMID: 7389453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2111. G Ital Cardiol. 1980;10(5):578-83.

[The treatment of dissecting aneurysm of the aorta. Review of 110 cases (author's
transl)].

[Article in Italian]

Ceci V, Fiorella AT, Bordi L, La Selva MA.

110 cases of dissecting aneurysm of aorta were reviewed; the therapeutic approach
was examined according to De Bakey classification. The most unfavorable prognosis
for De Bakey type I and II dissections was confirmed (88% and 83% mortality
respectively, against 73% mortality for type III). Surgical treatment achieved
best results for aneurysm of the ascending tract; six patients survived the
operation and are alive and well, they are belong to type I and II. All type III 
patients that were operated upon died. Figures for patients who received only
medical treatment and survived are: 5.4% De Bakey type I; 11.7% De Bakey type II 
and 41.6% De Bakey type III.CONCLUSIONS: Ipotensive controlled treatment should
be preferred for uncomplicated dissecting aneurysm of descending aorta, while
surgical treatment should be adopted in almost all aneurism of the ascending
aorta.

PMID: 7450379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2112. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther Toxicol. 1980;18(2):50-6.

The effect of clonidine on renin and aldosterone of hypertensive patients.

Salvetti A, Pedrinelli R, Cavasinni L, Simonini N.

The behaviour of blood pressure, sodium balance, plasma potassium, urinary and
plasma aldosterone, plasma cortisol, growth hormone, 17 OH ketogenic steroids
were studied in 20 mild hypertensive in-patients (10 with low and 10 with normal 
PRA) before, 1 day and 5 days after clonidine. Blood pressure was significantly
decreased by clonidine while PRA was as a mean unchanged. No correlation was
found between blood pressure changes and either basal PRA or aldosterone values
or PRA and aldosterone changes after clonidine. Urinary aldosterone was
significantly decreased by clonidine and aldosterone changes were unrelated to
those parameters (PRA, plasma potassium, sodium balance, ACTH) which are known to
influence aldosterone secretion, while GH showed a small increment the first day 
but was unchanged the fifth day. Plasma aldosterone was not significantly changed
by clonidine but its changes showed an inverse correlation to urinary aldosterone
changes.CONCLUSIONS: In our normal and low renin patients the antihypertensive
action of clonidine is neither predicted by basal PRA and urinary aldosterone
values nor explained by their changes. The opposite effect of clonidine on
urinary aldosterone and plasma aldosterone may point to a decrease of metabolic
clearance rate of the hormone exerted by the drug.

PMID: 6989768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2113. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980;62(4):576-82.

Intra-articular volume and hip joint instability in dogs with hip dysplasia.

Lust G, Beilman WT, Dueland DJ, Farrell PW.

The nature of the instability of the hip joint in dogs with dysplasia of the hip 
was investigated. In the experimental canine model, instability of the joint, as 
shown by subluxation of the femoral head on a roentgenogram, was accompanied by
an increase in the volume of the synovial fluid and of the ligamentum teres and, 
therefore, an increase in the intra-articular volume. Injection of a buffered
solution of hyaluronic acid into non-subluxated hip joints in situ increased
subluxation, whereas withdrawal of synovial fluid from one joint with severe
subluxation reduced the degree of subluxation. The withdrawal of varying amounts 
of synovial fluid from excised but intact joints resulted in a decrease in the
lateral displacement of the femoral heads. Injection of the hyaluronic acid
solution into excised joints resulted in increased lateral displacement of the
femoral heads. The results suggest that the joint instability associated with
canine hip dysplasia is related to increased intra-articular volume.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: Instability of the hip joint (abnormal laxity) is a feature of hip
dysplasia in dogs and congenital dislocation of the hip in children. The canine
disease can provide a valuable model in which to examine the pathogenesis of hip 
instability. The model may be useful to test prophylactic procedures to prevent
joint instability and thus ameliorate disease.

PMID: 7380858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2114. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Jan;62(1):90-6.

Distribution of 99mTc-phosphate compounds in osteoarthritic femoral heads.

Christensen SB, Arnold CC.

In a study of the distribution of 99mTc-polyphosphate and 99mTc-methylene
diphosphonate in osteoarthritic femoral heads by macroautoradiography of samples 
obtained during replacement surgery, the bone-seeking agents were seen to
accumulate in the weight-bearing, denuded areas, mainly in the cyst walls and at 
the osteochondral junctions in the osteophytes. The autoradiographic findings
were substantiated by findings from impulse-counting of different zones in the
femoral heads that were done on frozen sections. Morphological studies of
sections adjacent to the cut surface used for autoradiography showed that the
accumulations of the radionuclides were located in areas of new-bone formation,
particularly enchondral ossification. This finding was confirmed by histochemical
staining for alkaline phosphatase, a marker enzyme for bone mineralization. The
over-all distribution of alkaline phosphatase activity in cells roughly
paralleled the deposition of the bone-seeking agents.CLINICAL RELEVANCE:
Scintigrams of osteoarthritic joints reflect primarily the rate of osteogenesis
in subchondral bone and osteophytes. As the scan is positive even in very early
stages in the development of the disease, a more detailed knowledge of the
mechanism responsible for an increased uptake of 99mTc-phosphate compounds may,
among other things, contribute to the elucidation of the pathogenesis.

PMID: 7351422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2115. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Jan;62(1):79-89.

Biochemical studies on repair cartilage resurfacing experimental defects in the
rabbit knee.

Furukawa T, Eyre DR, Koide S, Glimcher MJ.

Wounds penetrating articular cartilage to bone heal with cartilage described
variably as either fibrous or hyaline. In the present study, such repair
cartilage was induced in the rabbit for biochemical comparison with normal
articular cartilage. The main collagen in the repair tissue after three weeks was
type I. By six to eight weeks, type II had become predominant and continued to be
enriched up to one year; but type I still persisted as a significant constituent 
of the repair tissue even after a year, so the repair cartilage never fully
resembled normal articular cartilage. From radiochemical analysis, type II was
determined to be the major collagen synthesized by the repair tissue after three 
to four weeks. After six months, the repair cartilage contained more collagen and
less hexosamine than control cartilage, suggesting that the fibrous texture that 
often developed was due to a loss of proteoglycans rather than to a change in the
type of collagen.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Procedures capable of inducing the
differentiation of authentic articular cartilage to resurface degenerated human
joints would be invaluable. Surgical methods, such as drilling through to
subchondral bone, are often attempted. It is not known, however, whether the
cartilage that forms is true articular cartilage or, for example, fibrocartilage.
The present experimental study in rabbits compared the properties of such repair 
cartilage with those of normal articular cartilage.

PMID: 7351420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2116. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Jan;62(1):68-78.

An analysis of femoral component stem design in total hip arthroplasty.

Crowninshield RD, Brand RA, Johnston RC, Milroy JC.

A comparative study of the various aspects of the design of the femoral
components of total hip replacements was done using three-dimensional
finite-element stress analysis. The aspects of deisgn that were considered
included: length, cross-sectional size, and material properties of the stem;
presence or absence of a medial collar; and material properties of the cement. We
found that increasing the length of the stem generally increased the stress
present in the stem while decreasing the stress present in the cement. Increasing
the cross-sectional size of the stem decreased the stress in both the stem and
the cement. Decreasing the modulus of elasticity of the stem material decreased
the stress in the stem but increased the stress in the cement. Increasing the
modulus of elasticity of the cement decreased the stress in the stem and
increased the stress in the cement. Contact of the collar of a femoral prosthesis
with the calcar femorale increased the longitudinal component of stress within
the region of the calcar femorale.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The mechanical longevity of
a total joint reconstruction is related to the stress distribution throughout the
prosthesis, cement, and bone. The stress distribution is related to a number of
factors, including the design of the prosthetic components (for example, stem
size, stem length, stem modulus of elasticity, and cement modulus of elasticity).
Reducing the stresses in prosthetic components to minimize the risk of failure
can be accomplished only through systematic analysis of all components of the
reconstruction.

PMID: 7351419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2117. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980;62(4):620-7.

Escherichia coli infections in knee joints. The pharmacological and antibacterial
effects of intramuscular antibiotics.

Schurman DJ, Kajiyama G, Nagel DA.

Using a standardized strain of Escherichia coli 06 and a rabbit knee-joint model,
we determined the following values: (1) the effective concentrations of amikacin 
and carbenicillin in vitro against Escherichia coli 06 when used singly or in
combination; (2) the levels of each of these antibiotics in serum and synovial
fluid after an intramuscular injection; (3) the effectiveness of amikacin in
preventing intra-articular infection when it is administered thirty minutes
before and six hours after an intra-articular inoculation of the same strain of
Escherichia coli; and (4) the synergistic effects of amikacin and carbenicillin
in combination both in vitro and in vivo when used together as a single dose six 
hours after intra-articular bacterial inoculation. Amikacin was much more
effective when administered before joint inoculation and the minimum effective
(inhibitory) concentrations of amikacin in vitro and in vivo were approximately
the same. A synergistic effect of amikacin and carbenicillin in combination was
more clearly evident in vitro than in vivo.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In vitro tests
such as determinations of the minimum inhibitory concentration and the minimum
bactericidal concentration, and the serum bactericidal test, can provide valuable
guides for the determination of minimum goals for antibiotic therapy. These in
vitro tests were related to concentrations of antibiotics in tissue assessed by
in vivo bacterial challenge tests and were found to be predictive of efficacy in 
vivo.

PMID: 6991503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2118. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980;62(4):583-98.

Morphological, immunochemical, and biochemical study of rabbit achilles tendon at
various ages.

Ippolito E, Natali PG, Postacchini F, Accinni L, De Martino C.

With aging, rabbit tendon tissue undergoes a series of morphological and
biochemical changes which involve both the cells and the extrace-lular matrix.
The extracellular matrix increases in volume, causing a relative decrease of the 
number of cells per unit of tissue surface. The tenoblasts become longer and more
slender, while their cytoplasmic processes increase in number and become thinner 
and more elongated, forming a dense network. In addition, tendon cells show a
marked decrease in the intracytoplasmic organelles responsible for protein
synthesis, while their intracellular content of contractile proteins does not
change. With aging collagen fibers increase in diameter and vary more in
thickness. These morphological changes correspond to biochemical changes that
include an increase in collagen, a decrease in mucopolysaccharides, and a
decrease in water content. During aging parallel changes occur in the elastic
fibers, which decrease in number and show structural alterations.CLINICAL
RELEVANCE: Ultrastructural and biochemical studies of tendon diseases need a
normal comparison. Out ultrastructural and biochemical findings in aging tendon
may be useful in that regard. The presence of actin and myosin in tendon cells
could be related to some aspects of tendon physiology and pathology.

PMID: 6991502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2119. J Urol (Paris). 1980;86(4):283-91.

[Surgery for priapism (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Khoriaty N, Schick E.

The authors review the literature with regard to surgery for priapism performed
in 138 patients: 92 treated by uni- or bilateral sapheno-cavernous anastomosis
and 46 by spongio-cavernous shunt. Sapheno-cavernous anastomosis: in 92 cases
operated upon, there were 65 useable records. Conservation of potency in 61.5% of
cases (40 out of 65) in particular in young patients aged 40 years or less where 
the rate of conservation of virility was 73.8%. After the age of 40, this rate
fell to 39.1% of cases. It was surprising to note that the results were similar
whether the operation was performed during the first 48 hours or later. Results
were better after unilateral anastomosis (72.5% of cases with conservation of
erection), than after bilateral surgery (54.5% conservation of erection).
COMPLICATIONS of this type of surgery consisted of pulmonary embolism and
necrosis of the penis. Spongio-cavernous anastomosis: 42 published cases but only
32 useable. Overall, 62.5% of cases with conservation of erection. Results were
better before the age of 40 (70% success) than in older patients (50% success).
Once again, the functional result obtained was independent of the period for
which priapism had been present preoperatively.COMPLICATIONS: urethrocutaneous
and urethro-cavernous fistulae. Comparison of the two types of operation failed
to reveal any difference before the age of 40 years. By contrast, after 40
spongio-cavernous anastomosis gave slightly superior results (50% as against 39% 
for sapheno-cavernous anastomosis). On the basis of this general review, the
authors drew a more favourable impression of caverno-spongious anastomosis.

PMID: 6995535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2120. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1980 Jan;176(1):140-6.

[Echographic patterns of orbital cholesteatomas and fibromyxomas].

[Article in German]

Dorn V, Srenger Z.

Orbital cholesteatomas and fibromyxomas are relatively rare, but in echographic
tissue differentiation both should be taken into consideration to avoid
misdiagnosis. An orbital cholesteatoma may be mistaken for a hemangioma or a
mixed tumor. Orbital cholesteatomas are distinguished by the following
characteristics; high reflectivity, usually typical subperiostal location, wall
or bone spikes, incompressibilty and immobility. Fibromyxomas are recognizable by
their relatively regular structure, low to medium reflectivity and marked
vascularity; they are poorly outlined, often showing signs of
cellulitis.DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS: "periorbital malignancy" and the acoustic
diagnostic group "sarcoma-lymphoma-pseudotumor".

PMID: 7412152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2121. Proc Eur Dial Transplant Assoc. 1980;17:259-65.

Improvement of post-heparin lipolytic activity (PHLA) after haemofiltration, in
uraemic patients.

di Giulio S, Lacour B, Thevenin M, Basile C, Drüeke T, Man NK.

The decrease of serum PHLA in uraemic patients has been attributed to toxic
effects of 'middle molecules' on lipoprotein lipase. Haemofiltration could
improve PHLA by increasing 'middle molecule' clearance. Serum triglyceride
concentration decreased and PHLA improved in three uraemic patients who received 
haemofiltration during three weeks as the initial treatment schedule. Activated
PHLA of a healthy subject failed to be inhibited by uraemic sera and uraemic
plasma ultrafiltrates obtained in vitro using polyacrylonitrile and cuprophane
membranes.CONCLUSION: haemofiltration is able to improve PHLA and to restore
normal serum triglyceride concentrations. The reported toxicity of uraemic serum 
may affect metabolic steps preceding the activation of the circulating lipolytic 
enzymes.

PMID: 7243777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2122. Proc Eur Dial Transplant Assoc. 1980;17:323-7.

Effects of prolactin suppression on hypogonadism im patients on maintenance
haemodialysis.

Tharandt L, Graben N, Schäfer R, Plewa G, Joachim K, Siegel R, Benker G, Reinwein
D.

The effects of prolactin (Prl) suppression by bromocriptine (BC) on impaired
sexual function were studied in 47 male patients on maintenance haemodialysis
(HD). All patients had normal serum zinc levels. Before treatment, 14 of 47
patients had moderate hyperprolactinaemia (not due to medication), 24/39 patients
had elevated LH levels, 13/34 patients had elevated FSH levels, 26/44 patients
had decreased serum testosterone levels and 18/24 patients were
oligo-/azöospermic. Bromocriptine was given in doses of 1.25 to 2.5 and 5.0mg/day
and each of these doses was maintained for two weeks. Seventeen patients
discontinued treatment within the first few days of BC treatment, because of
postural hypotension and/or nausea. Fourteen other patients had to be excluded
because of poor compliance. On treatment, as little as 1.25mg of BC/day
normalised serum Prl, and 2.5mg of BC/day decreased Prl below the lower limit of 
normal. Neither gonadotrophins nor serum testosterone levels changed
significantly during the six weeks of BC treatment.IN CONCLUSION: 1. neither
normalisation of moderate hyperprolactinaemia in patients on HD, nor 2.
suppression of serum Prl into the subnormal range affects serum gonadotrophin and
testosterone levels. 3. These results do not support the hypothesis that moderate
hyperprolactinaemia in our patients on HD is an important factor in the
development of hypogonadism.

PMID: 6787583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2123. Res Exp Med (Berl). 1980;178(1):43-54.

[Comparison of the effects of gastroenteric and parenteral saline loading on
kidney function after inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Heuer LJ, Knue-Beestermüller E.

We inhibited the prostaglandin synthesis with indomethacin in rats during a 7-h
(periods: 1--4h; 4--5.5h; 5.5--7h) gastroenteric and parenteral infusion of
isotonic saline. Indomethacin was given in a dosis of 10 mg/kg of b. wt. by
stomach tube after 5.5-h infusion of saline. We studied how far prostaglandins
are involved in the different function of the kidney by measuring the water and
sodium excretion and the cortico-medullary osmotic and albumin concentrations of 
the kidney.RESULTS: 1. a) Studies Without Indomethacin. As compared to infusion
of isotonic saline into the stomach water excretion is decreased by 30% (P less
than 0.02) and 35% (P = n.s.) in the second and third 90 min period during
parenteral infusion of saline. As compared to gastroenteric infusion we found an 
increase of the total osmolarity by 13% (P less than 0.02) in the cortex of the
kidney. b) Studies with Indomethacin. As compared to saline infusion into the
stomach indomethacin-treated rats decrease their urinary flow rates in 90 min by 
26% (P = n.s.) in the presence of equivalent saline infusion into the aorta.
Total osmolarity of the parenteral loaded rats increases by 17% (P less than
0.01) in the cortex of the kidney. 2. Indomethacin leads to an increased
concentrating ability of the kidney in both gastroenteric and parenteral loaded
rats. 3. In the presence of indomethacin plasma albumin of the kidney increases
in the cortex and in the outer medulla of the kidney. In the inner medulla, and
in the papillary tip, however, albumin concentration decreases significantly. As 
compared to gastroenteric saline infusion, the osmolarity of the kidney tissue
increases and the urinary flow rate decreases during equivalent parenteral
infusion of isotonic saline. The prostaglandins are not responsible for the
pronounced diuresis during infusions of isotonic saline into the stomach.

PMID: 7209134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2124. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1980;62:53-7.

Serum trypsin-like immunoreactivity and secondary hyperparathyroidism in renal
failure.

Antonucci F, Vezzadini P, Adorati M, Bonora G, Messa P, Montanaro D, Mioni G.

In 46 kidney patients aged from 30 to 71 years, after an overnight fast, serum
levels of trypsin (TLI), gastrin (Gas), parathromone (PTH), calcium (Ca),
magnesium (Mg), phosphate (iP), amylase, were evaluated. Ten patients had a
normal renal function; in 18 patients glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ranged
from 5 to 70 ml/m'; 18 patients with GFR below 2 ml/m' were treated with 4 hours 
hemodialysis. In dialysed patients TLI was evaluated before and after dialysis.
In patients with FGR ranging from 120 to 5 ml/m' a significant inverse
correlation (p < 0.001) appeared between TLI and GFR values. In the same group a 
significant direct correlation (p < 0.001) was found between PTH and TLI. The
study showed also a significant direct correlation between amylase and TLI (p <
0.001); likewise TLI, amylase was inversely correlated to GFR (p < 0.01) and
directly to PTH (p < 0.001). No correlation was found between TLI and Gas, Ca,
Mg, iP. A significant inverse correlation was found between PTH and GFR (p <
0.01). Because serum level of PTH, amylase and TLI were related to GFR values, we
calculated partial correlation between these parameters. The partial correlation 
coefficients of the relation between PTH and TLI, PTH amylase, holding GFR
constant, were higly significant (p < 0.001). On the contrary, holding a constant
PTH, the correlations between pancreatic enzymes and GFR were not confirmed.
Pre-dialysis TLI levels were significantly higher than post-dialysis (p <
0.05).IN CONCLUSION: 1) TLI and amylase have the same behaviour in renal failure;
2) the levels of both enzymes are high in renal insufficiency; their values seem 
to be correlated to secondary byperparathyroidism.

PMID: 6161411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2125. Schweiz Arch Neurol Neurochir Psychiatr. 1980;126(1):135-51.

[Attitude of psychiatric personnel on the treatment of patients, psychometrics
and results].

[Article in German]

Widmer A, Gonser A, Scharfetter C.

The therapeutic attitude of psychiatric nurses towards inpatients of a mental
hospital was studied. Is there a correlation of nurses' attitude and their view
of the patients' behaviour, social attractiveness, and prognosis? Are there
differences in the therapeutic attitude in regard to different diagnostic groups?
A questionnaire was constructed. Probands were 70 female, 40 male nurses. For
every proband there was taken a patient: 70 female, 40 male patients (34
schizophrenics, 15 depressive patients, 15 psychogeriatric patients). The data
were evaluated by path analysis and analysis of variance.THE RESULTS: Patients
with more social interest and more psychotic symptomatology were rated as more
socially attractive. The more pathologic patient's behaviour in the wards was
judged the worse was the supposed prognosis. Dysphoric-morose patients and
patients with low social attractiveness provoke an authoritarian and controlling 
attitude. Patients held as social competent stimulate nurses' attitude towards
promotion of dependence and autonomy. The lower social competence and the worse
prognosis is taken the more the attitude is inclined to protective control and
isolation. The therapeutic value of personal humane communication and direct
social contacts is taken for less important when patients seem to be socially
inattractive and incompetent. We did not find any difference in the nurses'
attitude in regard to schizophrenic or depressive patients. Schizophrenic
patients did stimulate more intentions towards propagation of independence and
autonomic activity than psychogeriatric patients do. Between male and female
nurses we did not find any difference in their attitudes to the (same sex)
patients.

PMID: 7414303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2126. Ups J Med Sci. 1980;85(1):74-83.

Effects of gliclazide--a new antidiabetic agent--on blood platelet function in
vitro and in vivo.

Arfors KE, Bergqvist D, Tangen O.

The effect of gliclazide on platelet activity was investigated and compared to
that of tolbutamide and glipizide.IN VITRO STUDIES: adenosine diphosphate induced
human platelet aggregation was inhibited by gliclazide in high concentrations
(0.5--2.0 mg/ml). In the same concentration range tolbutamide exhibited a
slightly less pronounced inhibitory effect. Collagininduced human platelet
aggregation was inhibited by gliclazide, glipizide and tolbutamide in a
concentration range of 0.5--2.0 mg/ml. Gliclazide had a similar effect on rabbit 
platelets. In vivo studies: Both acute and seven days administration of
gliclazide to rabbits resulted in prolonged primary and total hemostatic plug
formation time both in arterioles and venules. Similar results were obtained with
tolbutamide and glipizide. Experiments with laser-induced platelet plug formation
in the rabbit ear chamber demonstrated that 100 mg gliclazide/kg body weight and 
25 mg gliclazide/kg body weight during 7 days significantly reduced the number of
platelet emboli formed during 10 minutes after laser injury.

PMID: 7385462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2127. Z Klin Psychol Psychother. 1980;28(3):259-66.

[Conversation contents in person centered conversation groups and their
relationship with process variables in non-clients].

[Article in German]

Bergeest HG, Steinbach I, Tausch AM.

90 persons of different professions and ages (18 to 85 years old) took part in a 
total of 9 person-centered encounter groups of 2 1/2 days each. The groups were
completely tape-recorded (163 hours) and rated by experts into 7 categories of
"contents-of-talking". These categories were correlated with process-variables
(talking behaviour and individual problems of the participants).MAIN RESULTS: For
26% of the total time of these groups the participants talked about their
problems about interpersonal relations. After these groups the participants
stated that they had experienced relief in their dissatisfaction with own
behaviour and emotional problems. They experienced this relief although they had 
talked relatively little about these problems.

PMID: 7222901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

