
1. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1990 Jan;122(1):127-36.

Long-term culture of rat mammotrope and somatotrope subpopulations separated on
continuous Percoll density gradients: effects of dopamine, TRH, GHRH and
somatostatin.

Hofland LJ(1), van Koetsveld PM, Verleun TM, Lamberts SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Normal adult female rat mammotrope and somatotrope subpopulations were separated 
on continuous Percoll density gradients according to differences in their
density. Viable cells were recovered in 16 fractions. The cells from each
fraction were cultured during 7 days after which period 4-h incubations were
performed. rPRL secretion per cell increased towards the higher density
fractions. No major difference in TRH, dopamine and somatostatin responsiveness
was observed between mammotropes that were recovered in the different gradient
fractions. In addition, no differences in somatostatin responsiveness between the
somatotrope cells in the different gradient fractions were observed. However,
somatotropes that were recovered in the highest density region of the gradient
appeared to be more responsive to GHRH than the lower density somatotropes. In
the various gradient fractions there were no paradoxical effects of TRH and
dopamine on rGH release and of GHRH on rPRL release.CONCLUSIONS: 1. In long-term 
cultures there is no evidence for functionally different subpopulations of
mammotropes and somatotropes, separated according to differences in their
density, with regard to dopamine and TRH responsiveness and with regard to
somatostatin responsiveness, respectively. 2. There is no evidence for a
(mammosomatotrope?) subpopulation of cells showing paradoxical responses of PRL
or GH release to GHRH and dopamine or TRH, respectively.

PMID: 1968307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


